Just because small-form-factor (SFF) desktops are so, well, small doesn't mean they're not fully capable PCs. The Acer Revo One (starts at $249.99; $579.99 as tested) may be the same size as a mini milk carton, but it's one of the few SFF systems we've seen that has internal expansion room. On top of all that, it can also work as a personal cloud storage device that you can access inside or outside of your home. This PC packs plenty of power and versatility into its tiny frame, and is our Editors' Choice for consumer SFF desktops. Design and Features The Revo One has a small, white, polycarbonate chassis with rounded corners, and measures 6 by 4.25 by 4.25 inches (HWD). That's a smidge larger than the <p>Apple Mac mini (2014)</> and the <p>HP Pavilion Mini</>, but you'll welcome the extra height when you find out what you can do with it. There's a 1TB hard drive installed, along with two additional internal 2.5-inch drives bays. This means you can install extra hard drives or solid-state drives (SSDs) for up to 6TB more storage. That's perfect if you're a heavy downloader or if you have a lot of personal image and video files. The drive bays are tool-less, so you won't need a screwdriver. Unfortunately, the system's memory isn't user accessible, so you're limited to the installed 8GB of RAM, though that should be enough for most home users, even ones who edit home videos as a hobby. There's a surprising amount of connectivity options in the Revo One (RL85-UR45). An SD card reader is located on the top, but most of the ports can be found on the back panel. There, you'll find a Mini DisplayPort, an Ethernet port, a headset jack, an HDMI port, a Kensington lock port, two USB 2.0 ports, and two USB 3.0 ports. The Mini DisplayPort can be connected to a 4K monitor, and the HDMI port works with 1080p HDTVs as well. Wireless connections are handled by Bluetooth and 802.11ac Wi-Fi. The system also comes with a wireless keyboard and mouse combo with a USB 2.0 dongle. The mouse is serviceable, but the keyboard feels a bit cheap. The fact that the Revo One can accommodate additional drives means that it has a capacity and functionality akin to a network-attached storage (NAS) or a personal cloud drive. To that end, Acer has included a set of "Bring Your Own Cloud" (BYOC) apps that work to back up and stream media to your smartphone or tablet, including photos (abPhoto), music (abMusic), general files (abFiles), and synced Office documents (abDocs). Since the system uses a quartet of apps, it's not as unified as programs made for NAS drives, but the apps work fine. For example, abPhoto will automatically back up all the photos you take on your smartphone. Acer's BYOC apps are both Android and iOS compatible. You can use the BYOC apps with the included 1TB hard drive, but the extra drive bays give you room to grow. If you just want to play your media locally, you can download and use the Acer Revo Suite app on your Android phone or tablet. The app gives you access to an onscreen keyboard and touchpad on your smartphone or tablet, in case you misplace your wireless keyboard and mouse. Using the touchpad on your smartphone, you can control any media player installed on the Revo One, from the ones built into Windows 8.1, Netflix, or Amazon Prime. The Revo Suite app isn't compatible with iOS devices. Acer preloads a lot of apps, which we refer to as bloatware. I counted at least 19 extra tiles on the Start screen, including the usual suspects, like Amazon, Booking.com, eBay, Flipbook, Hulu Plus, Kindle, Netflix, Next Issue, Wild Tangent Games, and Zinio. While most of these programs can be useful, many require a paid subscription, and are therefore useless unless you subscribe. Budget an hour or two to remove the programs you don't wish to use. The Revo One comes with a standard one-year warranty. Performance The Revo One has an Intel Core i5-5200U processor with integrated Intel HD Graphics 5500. It's not quite as speedy as the Core i5 in the <p>Acer Aspire ATC-605-UB11</>, our current Editors' Choice entry-level desktop, but it's newer and slightly faster than the Core i5 in the <p>Apple Mac mini (2014)</>, a top pick for SFF desktops. For example, the Revo One's score on the PCMark 8 Work Conventional test (2,564 points) lagged behind that of the Acer ATC-605-UB11 (3,017). Other SFF desktops gave up much more performance for their compact size and lower prices. Systems with Celeron processors, like the <p>Dell Inspiron Small Desktop 3000 Series (3646)</> (1,549 points) and the Zotac Zbox CI320 nano Plus (1,496), certainly trailed behind the Revo One. Performance on our 3D gaming tests was quite slow, with the system returning frame rates akin to slideshows on the Heaven (12 frames per second or fps) and Valley (13fps) tests, both at Medium-quality settings at 1,366-by-768 resolution. You may be able to play older games, like Doom III and World of Warcraft, with all the quality settings turned to low, but save more modern games for your gaming PC. The Core i5 processor proved useful for everyday media operations like video transcoding. The system took a short 3 minutes, 11 seconds to finish the Handbrake test, which was a couple of seconds faster than the <p>Apple Mac mini </>(3:13). It was half of the time taken by the <p>HP Pavilion Mini</> (7:19) and the <p>Lenovo IdeaCentre Q190</> (6:58), and far ahead of the Dell Inspiron 3646 (10:22). The system completed our Adobe Photoshop CS6 test in 5:08. Thus, multimedia tasks on the Revo One are quick and easy, up to and including stuff that a hobbyist or prosumer would undertake. Conclusion The <p>Acer Revo One (RL85-UR45)</> offers a surprising amount of power, expandability, and connectivity in a very compact package. It's one of the few SFF desktops with two additional hard drive bays, and it has a powerful Intel Core i5 processor and 8GB of memory to help you with media playback and small-scale, content-creation tasks. Even without the drive bays, it has double the storage and system memory of the Apple Mac mini, our previous top choice for SFF desktops. Aside from Thunderbolt, the Revo One has better external I/O connections than the Mac mini, and it also comes with a wireless keyboard and mouse. True, the Mac mini is $80 less expensive, but with all the extras that come with the Revo One, it's worth it. While a little kludgy compared with the subscription-based iCloud, you own the BYOC storage on the Revo One, and you won't have to pay monthly or yearly fees after you've bought your drives. For all these reasons, the Revo One is our Editors' Choice for consumer SFF desktops.