The sweetest Honeycomb tablet we've seen so far packs modern Android goodness into a pocket-sized package, with a new OS version going far to solve Android tablets' biggest problem to date: the lack of decent tablet-sepcific apps. But the 7-inch Acer Iconia Tab A100's petite form means a too-small battery. Alas, though we're giving this great little tablet a strong recommendation, its battery woes keep it from attaining Editors' Choice status. The Wi-Fi-only Acer Iconia Tab A100 costs $329.99 for an 8GB model and $349.99 for a 16GB unit, putting it in the middle of the 7-inch tablet realm between cheapo models like the Coby Kyros ($199, 2 stars) and the <p>HTC Flyer</> ($499, 3.5 stars) and BlackBerry PlayBook ($499, 2.5 stars). There's no plan for this to be picked up by a U.S. 3G carrier, unlike its brother the Iconia A501, which will be coming out from AT&T. Physical Features, Networking and Battery Life Acer isn't a king of industrial design, and the Iconia Tab A100 is a bit of a clunker when it comes to looks. That's OK though; this tablet has a lot of other things going for it. The Iconia Tab A100 is a 7.7-by-4.6-by-0.5-inch (HWD), 13.9-ounce tablet made of shiny plastic with a cheap-looking silver design on its blue-gray back. Both the front and back feel a little greasy, and tend to attract fingerprints. The tablet has a standard 3.5-mm headphone jack, Volume buttons, an Orientation Lock switch, a Power button, and a bunch of ports on the bottom. It charges from a proprietary adapter rather than a standard micro USB connection, but it also has a micro USB port to connect to PCs, and a micro HDMI port to hook the tablet up to an HDTV. Switch the tablet on and you'll see a 1024-by-600 touch-screen LCD of average brightness. At its Automatic Brightness setting it's noticeably dim and the screen is too reflective, but pump up the brightness and it looks great. The stereo speakers on the bottom are loud enough to get their point across, but they're tinny, just like all other tablet speakers. I got much better sound through the headphone jack and over a pair of stereo Bluetooth headphones. Acer advertises 802.11 a/b/g/n Wi-Fi here, but we couldn't find any of our 5GHz Wi-Fi networks with this tablet, though connecting to 2.4GHz networks was simple. Curiously, the Iconia A100 also has a blocked SIM card slot, although the slot is mentioned in the tablet's quick start guide. This is a lost opportunity, as I'd love to have the option to pair the A100 with an AT&T prepaid tablet plan. The Iconia A100's Achilles heel, and the reason it isn't getting an Editors' Choice nod, is its poor battery life, thanks to a smaller-than-usual 3060mAh battery. (Most tablets have 4000mAh or larger batteries.) We only got 3 hours, 53 minutes of video playback on a charge, not enough for a cross-country flight. In the 7-inch tablet realm, that compares poorly to the 8 hours, 15 minutes we got from the BlackBerry PlayBook, or the 6 hours, 32 minutes from the Samsung Galaxy Tab ($399, 3.5 stars). It's also less than we see on most 10-inch tablets, such as the Apple iPad 2 ($499, 4.5 stars), which lasted 7 hours, 30 minutes. Android and Apps The Iconia Tab A100 is the first tablet shipping with Android 3.2. This is a big deal and a very good thing. The Android Market, home to more than 200,000 phone apps, is hideously broken for tablets, and Android 3.2 does just enough to fix things. It's very difficult to find apps designed for tablet screens in the Market. While phone apps run, they often look awkward or poorly designed. Android 3.2's major new feature is Zoom Mode, which convinces phone apps that they're running on a smaller phone screen and magnifies text and images rather than filling in chunks of the screen with blank space. This won't be great for 10-inch tablets; as we've seen on the iPad, apps designed for 3.5-inch screens and scaled up can still look very grainy on a 10-inch screen. But it's kind of wonderful on a 7-inch device, which is just small enough that the scaling still looks usable. I tried the Conan O'Brien Team Coco app, which looks awful on most tablets. In Standard mode, it's an ugly list with too much empty orange space on the right side of the screen. In Zoomed mode, it's tight and good-looking. This isn't a panacea, not by a long shot. Google still needs to fix the Android market so tablet owners can easily get tablet-specific apps, and until that happens, Android tablets will have a huge disadvantage against the iPad. But it's better than the experience on any other Android tablet so far. The app-scaling feature is Android 3.2's major new innovation, so for the rest of the Honeycomb package, check out our original review of the Honeycomb OS. Performancewise, the Iconia A100 has the same 1GHz Nvidia Tegra 2 dual-core chipset as every other Honeycomb tablet, and benchmark results are very similar. High-end games such as Galaxy on Fire 2 played smoothly and Web pages, even with Flash, loaded promptly and showed their content well. Acer hasn't skinned Android per se, but it's added a whole bunch of its own apps to the Iconia Tab. They're useful enough, but there are better alternatives for all of them, and I wish I had the option to throw them away for my own choices. The nemoPlayer media player makes it easier to browse your videos than the standard Android gallery, thanks to large thumbnails. MusicA is a cheap Shazam ripoff. Aupeo is a Pandora clone. SocialJogger is a somewhat awkward Twitter/Facebook client. Movie Studio is a basic movie editor. Hardwod Solitaire is the best-looking Solitaire game you've ever seen. Acer's Planner is an alternative home screen with news and email widgets, and Clear.fi is a client for DLNA, the incomprehensible networking system that lets a small number of very adept techies share media between their PCs, tablets, and TVs. Again, these apps cannot be uninstalled. One thing falls flat here: The Iconia A100 doesn't have a traditional USB mass storage mode, and it's totally incompatible with Macs. To plug it into a Windows PC, you have to download Acer's clunky Acer Sync software, after which the Tab appears as a drive you can drag and drop to. Acer Sync also purports to sync your Outlook data with your tablet, but I couldn't get that part of the software to find my tablet.