Performance, as a rule, jumps up every generation or so, and the <p>Apple iMac 21.5-inch (Thunderbolt)</> ($1,199 list) is no exception. With a second-generation Intel Core i5 processor and DX11-compatible AMD Radeon HD 6750M graphics, the newest iMac adds class-leading performance to the already iconic iMac chassis. The newest, hottest Thunderbolt interface is the gravy. If you're a Mac user upgrading a 2005 Mac, or if you're new to the Mac fold, the entry-level iMac is a compelling choice that will keep you happy for the next 5 to 7 years. Design and Features On the outside, the new iMac 21.5-inch (Thunderbolt) is identical to the previous <p>Apple iMac 21.5-inch (Core i3)</> ($1,199 list, 4 stars), including the same glass-covered 21.5-inch 1080p panel, wireless keyboard and mouse, and even the same row of I/O ports in the back. The one notable exception is that the older desktop's mini DisplayPort has been replaced with a Thunderbolt port. Even though they look physically identical, the Thunderbolt port is capable of dual-channel 10Gbps communication, much faster than USB 2.0, USB 3.0, FireWire, or eSATA. You can hook up many more devices to the Thunderbolt port as well: The interface can daisy chain devices together so multiple devices (like hard drives, monitors, printers, and input devices) can all use the same port on the iMac. The new iMacs come with a choice of the Apple Magic Mouse or Magic TrackPad for the same price. Our test unit came with the mouse. The 21.5-inch iMac came with 4GB of memory and a 500GB hard drive. While 4GB is plenty for a home user, pro users will want to swap out the memory or configure their new iMac with 8GB. Likewise, the base system comes with 500GB of hard drive space, which is not too shabby for a home user. That said, other systems in the iMac's price class come with a 1TB drive, like the Asus All in One PC ET2400IGTS-B008E ($1,299 list, 4.5 stars). External hard drives are easy to hook up via USB, FireWire, or (in the future) Thunderbolt, so that's not a huge nit at this point. Internal expansion isn't an option. Like many all-in-one desktops, the iMac really isn't designed for end-user upgrades. The problems that are significant nits are the fact that you'll need to find third-party adapters for the Thunderbolt port for HDMI in/out, USB 3.0, etc. Apple does make adapters for DVI and VGA monitors, but those are still extra cost options. Last but not least, there's no Blu-ray option on any Mac: Apple wants you to stream or download HD videos from iTunes or other online sources. These omissions are less of a bother on this entry-level iMac than it would be on the top-of-the-line model <p>Apple iMac 27-inch (Thunderbolt)</> ($1,999 list, 4 stars). The desktop comes with no bloatware at all. That is, those programs that really are there just to sell you more stuff (like "games" programs that only exist to sell/rent you games, or trialware programs that self destruct after a short period of time). The iMac comes with Apple's excellent iLife suite, which includes iTunes, iPhoto, iMovie HD, and GarageBand. Performance For the money, this iMac is the performance king. Not only is it faster than the previous iteration while running Mac OS X 10.6, it is also the fastest all-in-one desktop in the mainstream price range while running Windows 7! Even though the new iMac has a slower CPU clock speed than the previous-generation Core i3 in the iMac (Core i3), the new iMac's second-generation Intel Core i5-2400S processor is more efficient and has four cores compared with the Core i3's two. The new iMac took 1 minute 56 seconds in Windows and 1:40 in Mac OS to complete the Handbrake test, and 3:29 in Windows and 4:43 in Mac OS to complete the Photoshop CS5 test. Compare that with the iMac (Core i3), which took 2:29 in Windows 2:17 in Mac OS on Handbrake, and 4:21 in Windows and 6:29 Mac OS on CS5. The new iMac also trounced competitors from Gateway, HP, Sony, and Dell. About the only system that could keep up on multimedia tasks is the Asus ET2400IGTS-800SE, since it also has the Intel Core i5-2400S processor. At 3D tasks, the new iMac was in a class of its own. The iMac completed the Crysis test with a smoothly playable 70 frames per second (fps) at Medium quality and the Lost Planet 2 test with a respectable 32 fps at Middle quality. None of the other competitors could produce playable scores on either test. The new iMac also topped all other comers at the PCMark Vantage test (8,141 points) and at the 3DMark Vantage test (19,397 points). If you want to get things done quickly as well as stylishly, get the iMac. There really isn't any comparison between the <p>Apple iMac 21.5-inch (Thunderbolt)</> and other desktops in this price range. The new iMac trounces all at performance and styling. It's the class leader for non-touch all-in-one desktop PCs. The Asus ET2400IGTS-800SE has comparable multimedia performance, but the new iMac outclassed the Asus ET2400IGTS at 3D and day-to-day performance. Sure, the Asus ET2400IGTS has a few more features like a touch screen, Blu-ray, a larger hard drive, and HDMI-in, but the Asus' included software is nowhere near as integrated as that of the new iMac. The iMac is also $100 cheaper than the Asus ET2400IGTS, which dispells the myth of an "Apple tax" (i.e. Apple products are supposedly more expensive than Windows). Less expensive all-in-ones like the <p>Dell Inspiron One 2305 (Blu-ray)</> ($1,099 direct, 4.0 stars) have a few features with higher capacities (like hard drive space, Blu-ray, and system memory), but the Dell One 2305 is less attractive overall, and its touch interface isn't compelling enough (or complete enough) to overcome its much slower performance. The new iMac regains its crown as the Editors' Choice for mainstream/multimedia-oriented all-in-one desktops by virtue of its blazing performance, excellent software, styling, and price. More desktop reviews: HP Envy 34 Curved All-in-One (2017) <p>Falcon Northwest Tiki</> (2017) MSI Trident HP Elite Slice Digital Storm Velox (Core i7-7700K) more