The Apple iPad is a revolutionary, addictive Tablet PC with Wi-Fi. Add in 3G, and it becomes even more useful, just perhaps not $130 more useful, which is the premium you'll pay for always-on connectivity. And with 3G you have to tack on another $15 to $30 a month for service. The 3G model ($829, 64GB) costs enough more than the Apple iPad (Wi-Fi-only version) that you have to seriously consider where you'll use the 3G. Remember, this isn't likely a device you'll whip out on the street. Considering that even adding a paid Wi-Fi subscription will save you money over the 3G model, you may find that there are enough Wi-Fi hotspots and other ways to get online to make up for the lack of built-in cellular connectivity. None of this dulls the overall attraction of the iPad—whether it's the Wi-Fi-only tablet or the 3G model. It's safe to say that this is the only tablet we'd recommend to most people, with its thousands of apps, useful productivity software, and well-executed e-book platform. The Basics, Pricing, and Design In this review, I'll focus on the 3G model's differentiating features. For an in-depth look at all of the iPad's features and capabilities see our original Apple iPad review. And for more information, check out our reviews of key iPad apps like iBooks (Free, ) and iWork ($9.99, ). The iPad 3G comes in three capacities, each tacking $130 on to the same-capacity Wi-Fi-only version; $629 (16GB), $729 (32GB), and $829 (64GB). The tablet isn't locked to AT&T, but it's the only U.S. carrier that supports the iPad's 3G frequency bands. If you cut down a standard T-Mobile SIM card with an X-Acto knife, it will fit in the iPad's micro-SIM slot, and will work, but you'll have an iPad Wi-Fi + 2G—since you can't hit T-Mobile's 3G network. Basically, this is an AT&T-only device in the U.S. Practically identical to its Wi-Fi-only counterpart, the iPad 3G looks a lot like a giant iPod touch ($299, 32GB, ), except for its brushed aluminum back (the iPod touch has a shiny metallic back). The 3G model has a strip of black plastic along the top of the back panel that boosts the 3G antenna's signal, and there's a tiny pinhole on the tablet's side, which releases the MicroSIM card. Also, the 3G tablet is slightly heavier, weighing 1.6 pounds (compared with the Wi-Fi version's 1.5 pounds). Apple hasn't released details for the iPad's on-board 1GHz A4 processor, but various benchmarks we've run show that it performs like an ARM Cortex-A8 chip, similar to the one used in the iPhone 3GS ($199, 16GB, ). It's just about 30 to 40 percent faster, which is what we'd expect; the 3GS has a chip in the 600MHz range, and the iPad is running at a 1GHz. The power efficiency of the chip translates to a battery life that Apple rates at "up to ten hours" with Wi-Fi switched on. In Wi-Fi mode, we achieved a battery life of 9 hours and 25 minutes. Running the 3G modem nonstop, streaming video from the TVU global TV application, we managed to eke out 8 hours 5 minutes, which is still very respectable. The iPad (Wi-Fi + 3G) starts with 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR technology and adds support for HSDPA 7.2 (850/1900/2100 MHz) and quad-band EDGE on AT&T's and foreign networks, along with assisted GPS. 3G and GPS Performance Setting up the iPad 3G on AT&T's network is nearly effortless; just go to Settings, select Cellular Data, choose a service plan, and enter your credit card information. The $30 unlimited-use service plan costs the same you'd pay for data on the iPhone (which makes sense), but without an onerous two-year agreement; you can cancel or restart service any time. There's also a no-contract $14.99 service plan, which gives you 250MB per month, but beware, you'll eat up 250MB very quickly on this device. The iPad's Settings app lets you monitor your data usage and warns you when you're running out of data, so you can buy more. You can also use the iPad's 3G overseas, with one-time roaming add-ons; 20MB of data will run you $24.99 a month, 50MB is $59.99, 100MB is $119.99, and 200MB is $199.99. At those prices, you should probably just go find a Wi-Fi hotspot. The 3G iPad managed somewhat faster 3G speeds than the iPhone 3GS ($199, ) in side-by-side testing using the Speedtest.net app. With the iPad, I averaged speeds around 1,400 Kbps down and 180 Kbps up—yes, uploads were much slower than downloads. Both Google Maps and Web browsing feel slower on the iPad than on the iPhone 3GS. The iPad has to render so much more screen real estate that it takes longer for the page to fill in. Many apps work well over 3G. Netflix movies were visibly reduced in quality, but still watchable. ABC TV shows looked razor-sharp, albeit in a window that only covers half the screen. TVU's global TV player was also watchable. Pandora and NPR music streamed just fine. But AT&T and Apple have restricted or cut down the quality of some applications. Joost doesn't work over 3G. YouTube videos are reduced to seriously low quality. Skype, Trufone, and Talk2 won't make calls over 3G, either, so don't think about using your iPad as a replacement for a smartphone. The iPad's GPS performance blows the iPhone 3GS away. Both standing still and on a moving bus, I got a full GPS lock more quickly and it tracked my location more accurately on the iPad. Sometimes the iPhone was a full block behind me while the iPad was spot on. If you could figure out how to mount this monster in your car, it could be one heck of a navigation system. (The Wi-Fi-only iPad, of course, has no GPS, although it can sometimes figure out your location based on nearby Wi-Fi hotspots.) To 3G or not to 3G? If you're already sold on the idea of the iPad, the biggest question is whether to plunk down $130 more for the 3G version. If you spend a lot of time on commuter trains, or you're a road warrior who will travel with an iPad rather than a laptop, the 3G model might make more sense for you. Also, if you want to use your tablet for GPS, you'll need the 3G version.But for most people, the extra cost is tough to justify unless you can clearly envision when and where you'll use 3G rather than Wi-Fi. Again, the iPad is, at its heart, not a mobile device. In fact, when I did carry it around the streets of New York City it was awkwardly cradled in my arm and the reflective LCD was much more difficult to read in sunlight than the iPhone's screen. When you're not sitting down, an actual handheld device is just far more practical. The vast majority of places you'd use an iPad—home, a friend's house, the office, or a coffee shop—already have free Wi-fi, or are likely covered by a $7.95 per month Boingo Wi-Fi hotspot subscription. Boingo has thousands of hotels, cafes, airports, and other public facilities under its umbrella. But if you really do see yourself whipping out the iPad in places where you won't find Wi-Fi, there are more flexible ways to get online than built-in 3G. Verizon Wireless is currently running a deal where if you buy a Palm Pre Plus ($149.99, ), you can use it as a mobile hotspot for no extra charge. Considering you'll still need a smartphone anyway, that makes the Palm Pre and the Wi-Fi-only iPad a terrific combination. T-Mobile's HD2 ($199.99, ) smartphone will connect your iPad to the Net, as well. Mobile routers like Sprint's Overdrive or Novatel's MiFi are more expensive than the iPad's AT&T subscription, but they can link up five devices at once. If you travel with both an iPad and a laptop, this may be the best solution. We have a rundown of your best options in a recent story on how to use your Wi-Fi iPad with any carrier.