After it was announced back in January, the unfortunately named Apple iPad ($699 direct, 64GB Wi-Fi) seemed like it could be the company's first major clunker in a long time: An expensive niche product that would inhabit a nebulous region between laptops and smartphones, but wouldn't quite eliminate the need for either one. Aside from Apple enthusiasts, many of us wondered who would drop hundreds of dollars for this not-quite-computer. But having used the iPad for some time, I can tell you that the device just makes sense. When you combine basic-but-essential work tools with iWork, an improved browser, e-mail, iPod, and photo applications, a well-executed e-Book platform with iBooks, and throw in thousands of downloadable apps and games, and package it all in a gorgeous, slim slate with a beautiful 9.7-inch touch screen, you have yourself a winner. Is the iPad cheap? No. Is it flawless? Not at all. Omissions including support for multitasking, a built-in camera for video chats, and Flash support in Safari leave room for improvement, but otherwise, the Apple iPad is a very convincing debut. And it will undoubtedly be a driving force in shaping the emerging tablet landscape. The Basics, Pricing, and Design There are two different iPad flavors: Wi-Fi-only and Wi-Fi + 3G. (This review will focus on the Wi-Fi-only iPad, see our Apple iPad 3G review for details on the 3G-enabled version.) Pricing starts at $499 for the 16GB Wi-Fi-only model, and continues like this: $599 (32GB Wi-Fi only); $699 (64GB Wi-Fi-only); $629 (16GB Wi-Fi + 3G); $729 (32GB Wi-Fi + 3G); and $829 (64GB Wi-Fi + 3G). Remember, if you buy the Wi-Fi + 3G model, you'll need to pay AT&T for 3G coverage. (The device is locked to AT&T's network, so you can't use another mobile carrier.) You can opt to pay for coverage on a continual monthly basis ($14.99 per month for 250MB or $29.99 a month for unlimited data). There's no commitment or contract to sign, so you can switch your 3G service on and off whenever you like, and with no service, your 3G iPad will still be able to connect to the Web via Wi-Fi. In the U.S. you can purchase AT&T's 3G service right on your iPad 3G. The iPad measures 9.56 by 7.47 by 0.50 inches (HWD) and looks a lot like a giant iPod touch ($299, 32GB, ), except for its brushed aluminum back (the iPod touch has a shiny metallic back). From all the hype, you might expect it to be featherweight—and if you're tucking it into a bag, it's a lot lighter to tote than a laptop—but at 1.5 pounds, the iPad feels a little heavy when you hold it up with a single hand for long periods. The 9.7-inch LED-backlit IPS touch-screen display, which features 1024-by-768-pixel resolution, is framed by a 1-inch black border. If you're holding the iPad vertically, below the display you'll find Apple's familiar Home button which, when pressed, whisks you back to the iPad's main screen. Along the top panel, there's a headphone jack, a microphone, and an On/Off button. The left panel is clean, while the right panel houses the volume rocker and the screen-rotation lock, which is a Hold button for the accelerometer, so that sudden moves don't unintentionally shift the iPad's screen orientation. The built-in speaker and proprietary 30-pin connector live on the bottom panel. It's also worth noting that the hole that appears below the surface above the display is an ambient light sensor. The fact that you won't find a single port, USB, or otherwise, tells you that this product is not meant to be a full-fledged computer, or the substitute for one. Apple expects you to use e-mail and syncing to shuttle files and documents between the iPad and your computer. I can understand the decision not to include USB ports: the iPad is basically a big iPod touch with added capabilities, and decking it out with a bunch of ports opens a can of worms the iPad isn't intended to deal with. Still, this is bound to be a deal breaker for plenty of potential buyers. Included in the box: a 30-pin to USB cable to sync and charge your iPad with your computer, a 10W USB power adapter, and minimal documentation. You don't get Apple's signature white earbuds, and there's no screen-cleaning cloth—and trust me, after 30 minutes of your fingers all over the glossy screen, you'll need to wipe it down, despite the oleophobic, fingerprint-resistant coating. What's Under the iPad's Hood? The iPad runs iPhone OS 3.2, and is currently the only device that runs this version of the operating system. Basically, it's an iPad-optimized version of the current iPhone OS, tweaked for the iPad's larger screen and new apps. So just like an iPhone, the iPad lacks the ability to run multiple tasks at one time. The mysterious, in-house-designed 1GHz A4 chip gets little official comment from Apple, other than being described as "fast" and "power efficient." The A4's main application processor is thought to be of a similar architecture to the Cortex-A8 processor used in the iPhone 3GS ($199, 16GB, ), Palm Pre ($299.99, ) and Motorola Droid ($199.99, )—just faster. The HTC HD2 ($199.99, ) and LG Expo ($199.99, ) smartphones also use 1-GHz, Cortex-A8-class processors, as does the Lenovo Skylight U1 tablet. The iPad's graphics capabilities come from a PowerVR SGX GPU, similar to the one found in the iPhone 3GS and iPod Touch. If the iPad is using the same PowerVR SGX 535 as in the 3GS, it can render about 28 million polygons/second, which is more powerful than the Qualcomm Snapdragon found in devices like the HTC HD2, but is well behind the muscle of Samsung's latest handheld graphics hardware. Since Apple hasn't released the exact model of the iPad's PowerVR SGX, it may be of a newer vintage than the 535. The screen does seem to respond almost instantly; so whatever it is that powers the A4 chip (it's rumored to be designed by former AMD and ATI chip design veterans), offers an impeccable touch-screen experience. The power efficiency of the chip translates to a battery life that Apple rates at "up to ten hours" with Wi-Fi switched on. Our own rundown test of the rechargeable lithium-polymer battery netted a respectably close battery life of 9 hours and 25 minutes. Our Wi-Fi-only review unit supports 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR technology. The 3G model adds support for UMTS/HSDPA (850, 1,900, 2,100MHz) and GSM/EDGE (850, 900, 1,800, 1,900MHz) on AT&T's network, along with assisted GPS. (We'll test the 3G connectivity and GPS as soon as we're able to get a 3G-enabled iPad for review.)—Next: Web Browsing and E-Mail; Apps, Apps, Apps!