The 2015 Apple iMac ($1,999 as tested) features a brilliant 5K Retina In-Plane Switching (IPS) display backed by a beefy Intel Core i5 processor and AMD R9 graphics. It's the system to get if you perform a lot of tasks that require insane levels of visual detail, like graphics, photography, scientific analysis, and video. And now Apple has made it more affordable to own one. Thus, it earns our Editors' Choice for high-end all-in-one desktops. A quick note: Last year's <p>Apple iMac 27-inch with Retina 5K Display</> is still available. That model is now the top-of-the-line 27-inch iMac on Apple's website, and its price has dropped by $200 to $2,299. Our review unit is the new base model Retina-equipped iMac, with a slightly slower Core i5 processor, a standard hard drive rather than a Fusion Drive, and AMD Radeon R9 M290 instead of AMD Radeon R9 M290X graphics. Note that Apple is also still making non-Retina 21- and 27-inch iMacs, starting at $1,099. Design and Features On the outside it's difficult to distinguish the latest iMac from the previous iterations of recent years, as the design has remained largely untouched since 2012. The aluminum and glass chassis is a modern classic, and it defines the iconic look for all-in-one (AIO) desktops. It still has the same screen as last year's model, a brilliant 27-inch Retina 5K Display encased under edge-to-edge glass. The system floats above your work surface using a simple single hinge connected to the aluminum support arm. Other AIOs, like the <p>MSI Gaming 24GE 2QE-014US</>, try to emulate the iMac's simplicity, but ultimately, Apple's design prevails for its minimalism. If there's any drawback to the stand, it's that it offers no height adjustment for the screen. (If that's a deal breaker for you, Apple stocks an identically configured model that forgoes the stand in favor of an integrated VESA mount adapter for $2,039.) The display 5,210-by-2,880 native resolution. Instead of displaying text and graphics at a 1:1 pixel ratio (which would make them tiny), Apple zooms UI elements so they appear at 2,560-by-1,440 resolution, with all the text and window elements scaled and smoothed accordingly. Four other scaled resolutions are available in the Displays area of System Preferences. Graphics in programs updated for the Retina Display will render at native resolution, so you can edit 1080p or 4K video natively on the screen with room for toolbars. Colors just pop on this screen. Simply eyeing at the system wallpapers is a joy, so looking at your raw, native-resolution photos and videos will be as well. Viewing angles are excellent. The display isn't a touch screen, which isn't a huge drawback, since OS X doesn't support touch input. If you need that kind of interface, the Windows-based <p>HP Sprout</> or its stable mate, the <p>HP Z1 G2 </>workstation, are better options. I/O ports are plentiful, if somewhat inconveniently placed. The system tapers to a slim 5mm (0.19 inch) on the sides of the chassis, so there's no room for the connectors there. Instead, you'll find an Ethernet jack, a headset port, an SDXC card slot, two Thunderbolt 2 ports, and four USB 3.0 ports in the back. At least they are exposed, rather than hidden in a recessed compartment, like on the MSI Gaming 24GE. 802.11ac and Bluetooth 4.0 handle wireless connections. Note that Retina Display iMacs don't support Target Display mode, so you can't use the iMac's screen as a monitor with a MacBook or an Apple Mac mini. The 8GB of system memory and 1TB of hard drive storage are more than adequate for intricate graphics work. The Fusion Drive is available as an option on the base configuration we reviewed, but it comes standard with the top-of-the-line iMac. Fusion Drive is a self-regulating combination of Flash Storage memory and a 1TB spinning hard drive. The slower hard drive holds data and apps you don't use very often, while the smaller 128GB of Flash Storage quickly loads the operating system and the apps and files you use everyday. If you need more memory, a hatch opens on the back of the desktop, exposing two free DIMM slots, letting you easily increase the RAM to a maximum of 32GB. You can't as simply upgrade the system's hard drive, however. It is doable with a lot of time and determination, but you'll need specialized tools to get into the chassis. It's much easier to upgrade the storage from a selection of Flash Storage and Fusion Drive options when you order the system. Like other Macs, the system comes with OS X Yosemite and a selection of Apple apps like GarageBand, iMovie, Keynote, Numbers, Pages, Photos, and Time Machine. In contrast, Windows systems like the <p>Lenovo Horizon 2</> require a paid subscription to use Office 365. The hard drive is slower than the Fusion Drive in the more expensive iMac model, but once you've booted the desktop and loaded all your apps, you're unlikely to notice a speed difference. The system comes with a one-year warranty with 90 days of phone support. Performance The Intel Core i5-4590 processor and AMD Radeon R9 M290 graphics are a slight downgrade from the components in the top-of-the-line iMac configuration, but both desktops performed very similarly on our benchmark tests. Multimedia scores for our review unit were very good: 1 minute 15 seconds on our Handbrake test, 3:19 on our Adobe Photoshop test, and 510 points on CineBench R15. Last year's iMac was only 5 seconds faster on the Handbrake test and 11 seconds faster on Photoshop. Both configurations of the iMac with Retina Display had essentially the same performance as faster-clocked Core i7-powered Windows systems like the <p>HP Sprout</>, the MSI 24GE 2QE-014US, and the <p>MSI AG270 Gaming All-in-One (2PC-006US)</>. The <p>Lenovo Horizon 2</> was significantly slower, due to its slower Core i5 processor. The workstation-class <p>HP Z1 G2 </>was the leader at the multimedia tests (1:06 on Handbrake; 2:49 on Photoshop; 742 points on CineBench), but the iMac is certainly fast enough to do project-based work in a timely manner. The AMD R9 M290 graphics can be categorized as moderate-enthusiast level, since the iMac achieved smooth playable frame rates at our Heaven and Valley tests at medium-quality levels. When we bumped quality levels up to Ultra quality at 1080p, the system was a lot less playable at 20 to 26 frames per second (fps). The AMD R9 M290X graphics in the top-of-the-line iMac only improved scores by a few frames per second in the same tests. It's at least able to play games like Civilization V and Diablo III, at medium- and high-quality settings at 1080p or better resolution. The iMac's 3D scores actually weren't too far off from those of the MSI Gaming 24GE, so it will give you a respectable gaming experience during work breaks. We don't recommend pushing the screen resolution to the full 5K, however. You'd need at least two to three times as much GPU power to play at 4K or 5K resolutions. When we pushed the system to 2,560-by 1,440-resolution, frame rates dropped on our tests to the (unplayable) mid-teens. At $1,999, the latest base-model iMac is a $300 discount from the top model. That certainly makes it a good deal if you're willing to forgo the slight speed bump you would get with the Fusion Drive and the slightly faster 3D graphics of the higher configuration. You certainly won't miss the extra 200MHz in the processor, as our performance results have shown. Even though it lacks Target Display Mode, the iMac is still a great alternative to buying a $1,250 Windows system, plus a $2,000 5K display. Thus, we have no reservations calling the latest <p>Apple iMac 27-inch with Retina 5K Display</> our Editors' Choice high-end all-in-one desktop.