First announced the Computex trade show last June, the <p>Asus Transformer Book Trio</> ($1,499, as tested) is three devices in one. It's a laptop, it's a tablet, and it's even a desktop PC (sort of). The Transformer Book Trio is the next step in the move toward convertible and detachable hybrid designs. Pushing this idea one step further, the Transformer Book Trio puts several interesting (though not entirely new) ideas into one intriguing design. The end result—ambitious though it may be—falls short of what we expect from a finished consumer product, with complications arising from the implementation of the 3-in-1 design, and bugs that further mar the user experience. One Design, Three Wacky Modes The Transformer Book Trio might earn the title of most complicated hybrid system, with two separate devices and two separate operating systems combining, Voltron-style. With both halves of the system combined, the Transformer Book Trio measures 0.93 by 12 by 7.6 inches (HWD) and weighs 3.7 pounds. The display detaches from the keyboard to become an 11.6-inch tablet, with a 1,920-by-1,080 In-Plane Switching (IPS) display and 10-point touch. While we've seen detachable tablets before, such as the <p>HP Spectre 13t-h200 x2</>, the Transformer Book Trio doesn't simply offer tablet hardware, it does so with a separate operating system, a skinned version of Android 4.2 (Jelly Bean). The tablet features an Intel Atom CPU and 16GB of on-board flash storage, plus an internal battery. The keyboard half of the Transformer Book Trio is equipped with its own processor and memory, as well as another battery. Connect the tablet to the docking keyboard, and the tablet becomes a touch-screen display for a small clamshell laptop. In laptop mode, you have the option of running either Windows 8 or Android, switching from one to the other with the press of a button. We've seen a couple other dual-OS devices in the past—like the <p>ViewSonic ViewPad 10</>—but navigating two operating systems is clunky at best. And then there's the desktop mode. Because it has its own battery, processor, and hard drive, the docking keyboard isn't a useless accessory when the tablet is disconnected. Instead, it's capable of running entirely on its own, provided you connect it to an external monitor via mini DisplayPort or micro HDMI. Hook up a monitor, and you've got a functioning Windows PC, with an Intel Core i7 notebook processor, a smattering of ports, and a built-in keyboard and touchpad. This is akin to the Cybernet ZPC-D5, a PC-in-a-keyboard concept we reviewed a few years back. The Transformer Book Trio is a little bulkier than most detachable hybrid systems, thanks to the fact that it houses two separate devices. While plenty of detachable hybrid designs place PC components into the tablet half of a system, they make up for some of this thickness with slimmer keyboards, usually housing nothing more than a keyboard, touchpad, and sometimes a secondary battery. The two halves of the system together measure 0.93-inch thick—positively chunky when compared with svelte competitors like the HP 13t-h200 x2, which is 0.7-inch thick. At 3.75 pounds, it's far heavier than most 11-inch systems—more than a pound heavier than Asus's other 11-inch detachable system, the <p>Asus Transformer Book T100TA (64GB)</>, which weighs 2.4 pounds with the docking keyboard. The Trio has a luxurious brushed metal design over most of the chassis that feels extremely well-made. The docking hinge initially seems to connect solidly, but there's no alignment guide or other help for properly lining up the tablet with the docking connector. Once docked, the hinge is fairly wobbly, and doesn't hold up well against the taps and bumps that are common when using a touch screen. The final, and most irritating, problem we ran into during testing was the tablet's propensity to turn off and then refuse to turn back on. Fearing it was a defect in our review unit, we returned it to Asus for a replacement, but the problem cropped up again when retesting the new system. We did eventually get the tablet working again, but the intermittent issue is impossible to ignore. The keyboard feels a little cheap, with non-backlit keys and a deck made of plastic instead of the brushed aluminum found on the rest of the chassis. Nevertheless, it feels pretty good, albeit a bit small, and offers a decent typing experience. The arrow keys are half-sized, as are the function keys along the top, which only exacerbates the cramped feeling of the smaller keyboard. The accompanying touchpad is also quite small, and not particularly responsive. In testing, it had trouble with Windows 8 gestures, such as swiping in from the edges to access Windows 8 Charms or to cycle through open apps. One more quirk to watch out for—the power button for the laptop/desktop PC half of the system is an otherwise normal function key next to the delete key. A slip of the finger, and you'll put the entire system to sleep. Two buttons over is a unique function key you won't find on other PCs—an OS selection key that lets you switch from Windows 8 to Android, and back again. Two high points for the Transformer Book trio are the display and sound system. The first looks pretty great, thanks to an 11.6-inch, IPS screen with full HD 1,920-by-1,080 resolution. The audio quality is also quite solid, thanks to Bang and Olufsen ICEpower sound. Features Because they can function as two separate devices, the tablet and keyboard halves of the Transformer Book Trio each have their own set of ports and features. The tablet is moderately well-equipped with front-and rear-facing cameras—a 720p camera in front for Skype and video chat, and a 5-megapixel camera on the rear for shooting photos and video (with 1080p video capture). Along the bottom edge of the tablet you'll find a microSD card slot, a microUSB 2.0 port, headphone jack, and docking connector. (It's worth noting that when the tablet is docked, the ports along the bottom edge are all inaccessible.) On the back are buttons for powering the tablet on and off and adjusting audio volume. For connectivity, there's a single-band 802.11n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 3.0. The docking keyboard, with its larger dimensions and PC capabilities, has an expanded set of ports and features, with two USB 3.0 ports (one with extra power for charging devices), microHDMI and mini DisplayPort for connecting to an external monitor or HDTV, and a headset jack. Its networking features are better than that of the tablet: dual-band 802.11ac Wi-Fi, which offers faster connectivity with better range, and Bluetooth 4.0. The tablet is outfitted with 16GB of onboard storage, which is very little—you can fill that space easily with just a few movies. The built-in microSD card slot lets you supplement this with an extra 32GB or 64GB card. The keyboard, meanwhile, is outfitted with a 500GB 5,400rpm hard drive. Yes, you read that right—despite all of its mobile ambitions, the Transformer Book Trio is equipped with a spinning hard drive. While the 500GB drive does offer considerably more storage capacity than the smaller 64GB or 128GB solid-state drives (SSD) offered in the <p>Microsoft Surface Pro 2</> or the <p>HP Spectre 13t-h200 x2</>, it is also both slower and considerably more prone to damage when used on the go. Now is probably a good time to mention that Asus covers the Transformer Book Trio with a one-year warranty, and an extra 30-day "Zero Bright Dot Guarantee" on the display. Asus also includes a soft zippered case for the 3-in-1 device, which gives you a bit more protection against scuffs and dings.