The <p>Boxx renderPRO</> ($9,363 as tested) is touted as a "rendering and simulation appliance" by its manufacturer, but that essentially translates into a highly specialized Windows desktop workstation for 3D software rendering. It's much more compact than a traditional tower, but you'll find two 12-core Intel Xeon processors inside, ready to complete that computer animation project that's due today. It's pure power for a limited niche audience that appreciates speed above all, and for them, it's certainly worth the price tag. CGI CreationCreating 3D computer graphics involves several discrete steps. Because creating and blocking out the models in a scene, for instance, is an interactive process, a workstation with a powerful discrete graphics card is the best tool for the job. 3D rendering is the process of actually creating the CGI scene in the computer, essentially filling in the foreground and background elements so they look like a finished product instead of a rough sketch. This process is a hands-off affair, typicaly handled by a render farm or your workstation while it's running the job overnight. Rendering fills in all the details and textures, so, say, a granite wall will look like reflective stone rather than a flat-shaded, gray surface. The finished product can be a static image, like architecture plans for a sales pitch, or it can be a moving image made of many static frames strung together, like a computer-animated short film. Once you've created the models and CGI scene parameters, you can then schedule the software render process on the renderPRO. Programs like Cinema 4D, Maya, and SolidWorks have job-queue-control software that push projects through the system, and can automatically save finished work to your local file server. Ideally, batch jobs can be queued up in the evening and be ready for you in the morning. Alternately, you can create the models and scene blocking on another workstation on your desk, like the <p>Boxx Apexx 2</> or the $17,321 <p>Dell Precision Tower 5810</> configuration we reviewed. This frees your workstation to continue working on other facets of your current projects. Even hardcore systems like the dual-processor <p>HP Z840 Workstation</> ($10,044 as tested) can become bogged down if you're trying to render a 3D job while you're multitasking with other programs. In any case, the renderPRO can make short work of any CGI rendering job. Traditionally, content creators like animation studios have used multiple workstations clustered together to chew on the all the rendering calculations that translate into CGI images on screen. Famously, Pixar used more than 100 Sun workstations linked together to create Toy Story in the mid-1990s. That render farm took from 45 minutes up to 30 hours to render each single frame of the groundbreaking film. The dual Xeon processors in the renderPRO can do that type of work in a fraction of the time. Design and Features There's not much to the renderPRO's design. It looks like an elongated, black, metal shoebox, with a silver-colored, perforated front panel. It measures 3.75 by 6.75 by 20 inches (HWD), so it will fit on top of your desk easily. The desktop-style box means that you don't have to mount the renderPRO in a server closet, as you would with a server or shared workstation. The system's cooling fans are quiet in operation, even when the system was rendering 3D scenes during our CineBench R15 test. That means it won't sound like a screeching jet engine like some rackmount servers. Connectivity options are limited, which is okay, since the system is designed to work unattended on your render job queues instead of working interactively full time. There are two Gigabit Ethernet ports on the back panel, along with another Gigabit Ethernet adapter for out-of-band remote control access to the renderPRO. Out-of-band remote access lets you restart or administer the system from home, in case you need to deal with a system crash while running projects overnight or over a weekend. A USB 2.0 port on the front and two USB 2.0 ports in the back can be used for local keyboard and mouse control. At least one USB 3.0 port would have been nice to see here in the case that you need to use a hard drive instead of your company's LAN to move files. The system also has a serial port and a VGA port. The Nvidia Quadro K1200 graphics card has four mini DisplayPorts to which you can connect multiple displays. The system has a relatively small 128GB solid-state drive (SSD), but it has a gargantuan 32GB of system memory. It needs the system memory to speed through render jobs, but after each job is done, the animation or graphics can be copied to a server. While we understand some may want to use the system this way, a 1TB hard drive is an $80 addition. That's a minuscule amount on a system that costs more than $9,000, and is a glaring omission if you want to use the renderPRO as a standalone workstation. There are two free 2.5-inch internal drive bays, however, if you want to add more local storage yourself. The system has a one-year warranty and access to a tech support staff that is trained to solve problems with your content-creation applications. Performance Two Intel Xeon E5-2695 v3 processors with 12 cores each provide the power here. With Hyper-Threading, the system can process 48 threads simultaneously. That's reflected in the mind-numbing score of 2,897 points on the CineBench R15 test. To put that into perspective, single-processor systems like the <p>Boxx Apexx 2</> (897), the <p>HP Z1 G2 </>(742), and the Lenovo ThinkStation P300 (747) can't even break 1,000 points on the same test. The Dell Precision Tower 5610 (1,582) and the HP Z840 (2,588) are more competitive, but still lag behind in 3D-rendering power. The system also ran through our Handbrake test the quickest, in 34 seconds, but that's only a couple of seconds faster than the Dell 5610 and the HP Z840. 4 minutes 6 seconds on the Photoshop CS6 test isn't outstanding, but it's still a passable score. The <p>Boxx Apexx 2</> was a much faster photo editor at 2:28. Photoshop only uses up to four cores in the processor, so the Apexx 2's 4.5GHz Core i7 CPU helps more than the extra cores in the Xeon E5-2695 v3 in the renderPRO. You may never use the renderPRO strictly as a desktop, but it is a speedy one turning in an enviable 3,219 points on PCMark 8 Work Conventional. The Quadro K1200 graphics card helped the system garner very good results on the 3DMark and games tests as well. Conclusion The <p>Boxx renderPRO</> is a powerful PC that can replace the cluster of workstations typically used for 3D rendering. Since it's so specialized, however, it can't compete with the similarly priced <p>HP Z840 Workstation</>, our current Editors' Choice dual-processor workstation, on other general tasks. Bundle the renderPRO with the <p>Boxx Apexx 2</>, and you'll be able to handle an intense workflow, but for a general one-box solution, there are better choices.