We've seen something of an explosion of Chrome-based laptops in the last year, and if there's one area where Chromebooks are ideally suited, it's the classroom. These inexpensive devices can be easily set up with educational apps, and entire classrooms of Chromebooks can be managed through Google's Chrome management tools. With everything based in the cloud and then synced to a user's Google account, any single system can be used by multiple students. With the new CTL Educational Chromebook ($279 as tested), the small Chrome-based laptop gets an education-friendly makeover, with features that open up new educational activities, a design that should take the worst a child can dish out, and a price that's cheaper than some textbooks. Design The NL6 is built to withstand the busy, rough-and-tumble environment of the classroom. The laptop body is made from tough, molded plastic to survive being stuffed in backpacks and manhandled by elementary schoolers. The hinges and ports are reinforced against stresses and strains. A rubber bumper wraps around the outside of the chassis to protect it against drops and bumps. The keyboard is water-resistant to splashes and spills. For anyone who worries about handing their child an expensive piece of technology, the NL6 is both ruggedized and affordably priced. It's also easy to tote around, with a built-in handle and a slim design that measures 0.88 by 11.8 by 8.4 inches (HWD) and weighs just 3.04 pounds. It actually looks extremely similar to the <p>2Go Convertible NL4 Classmate PC</>, with its plastic construction and classroom-ready design, but without the rotating touch display. It's not as sleek as the <p>HP Chromebook 11</>, but it has the functionality and portability you need, even if it's not a fashion plate. The 11.6-inch display offers a basic 1,366-by-768 resolution. The screen is reasonably bright and has an anti-glare coating, so it should be fine to bring along to, say, an outdoor field trip. Like the similarly sized display on the <p>Asus C200 Chromebook</>, the screen looks best when viewed head on, since the viewing angles aren't great—you'll begin to see color distortion at only a few degrees off-center. Unlike the current Editors' Choice for Chromebooks, the <p>Acer Chromebook C720P-2600</>, the NL6 has no touch capability. Above the display is a 1-megapixel webcam, but unlike the usual fixed-position cameras seen on other Chromebooks, the one on the NL6 rotates from front to back, a feature carried over from past education-oriented systems like the 2go NL4. The picture quality is middling—it looks washed out in bright light—but it does offer one feature you won't find on the average Chromebook: a magnifying "microscope" attachment that resembles a jeweler's loupe and snaps onto a raised ridge around the webcam lens. An integrated microphone is built into, and rotates with, the webcam. The chiclet keyboard has a matte finish, and "anti-peel keys," meaning the lettering stickers won't come off when they begin to wear. For an adult, the keyboard may feel just a little small, but it's ideal for kids and their smaller hands. The keyboard layout is a little different than what you'll see on most laptops, with Chrome-specific function keys along the top, a dedicated search key instead of Caps Lock, and (obviously) no Windows key. The matte-finish palm rest also has a soft-touch feel, which is more comfortable than smooth or glossy plastic. Just below the spacebar is a multitouch trackpad, which supports Chrome OS gesture controls, like two-finger tapping and scrolling, and three-finger swiping to see multiple windows. Features For connecting peripherals, the NL6 is outfitted with two USB ports (one USB 3.0, one USB 2.0), a full HDMI-out port, and an SD card slot. For wireless connectivity, there's dual-band 802.11n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0. There's 16GB of onboard flash storage, but Google also offers cloud options for storing all of your files. The NL6 is like most any other Chromebook, with the usual Google Apps and none of the education-specific apps and programs you might expect to come preinstalled. That's not to say there aren't any available, but when you initially set up your system, it's the same basic Chrome OS you'll see on any other device. That said, Google offers bundles of education apps for elementary school, middle school, and high school, and an entire classroom full of Chromebooks can be easily managed by a teacher through a Web-based management console. One specific app you'll want to pay attention to is the SparkVue Chrome App—the Chrome equivalent of the SparkVue software that comes installed on Windows-based education systems—which gives you several ways to use sensors (like the NL6's webcam and microphone) in science activities. It gives you all sorts of options for recording images, video, and other data, and then parsing and analyzing that data. There are dozens of similar education apps available for free or nearly free, all of which bring interesting educational tools to the Chromebook. CTL covers the system with a one-year warranty. Performance The NL6 is equipped with an Intel Celeron N2930 processor, a 2.16GHz quad-core CPU based on the energy-efficient Intel Bay Trail-M platform. It provides longer battery life, and requires less cooling than a more powerful processor, allowing for the quiet fanless design. Paired with 4GB of RAM, the processor is extremely similar to the 2.16 GHz Celeron N2830 in the <p>Asus C200 Chromebook</> and offers the same speedy performance seen on the Acer C720P-2600. The result is a solid performer that handles basic browsing just as well as the top-rated Chromebooks available. I noticed some slowness when streaming large video files, and it started to get sluggish when browsing with twelve tabs open, but for anything less demanding, it does the trick. When tested with our battery rundown test, the NL6 lasted 7 hours 22 minutes, playing a looping video at full screen, with the Wi-Fi off, and the screen set to 50-percent brightness. That's right in line with the Acer C720P-2600 (7:20), and long enough to take a student through a full day of school and even some homework after. Conclusion The bottom line here is that, while the <p>CTL Educational Chromebook (NL6)</> is inexpensive by virtue of being a Chromebook, it's not far removed from our top picks for Chrome devices. The performance and battery life are comparable to those of our Editors' Choice <p>Acer Chromebook C720P-2600</>. And it's ready for the classroom with the addition of several kid-proof features, like a spill-resistant keyboard and rubber bumper for shrugging off bumps and bangs. The <p>Acer Chromebook C720P-2600</> is still our top pick, thanks to its larger storage, touch screen, and greater availability, but the <p>CTL Educational Chromebook (NL6)</> comes highly recommended as the Chromebook to take to school.