The <p>Dell Chromebox for Meetings</> ($999 as tested) is a turnkey videoconferencing system that works with Google's Apps for Business. It's meant to replace the proprietary video conferencing system in your meeting room that you've been wrestling with for the past decade. It works well as a conferencing system for SMBs up to enterprise level, but you'll still need your desktops or laptops handy if you want to do more than simply talk to each other. Design and Features The Chromebox for Meetings measures a compact 1.75 by 5 by 5 inches (HWD), and is made of matte-black polycarbonate. It's almost identical in size and appearance to the <p>Asus Chromebox M004U</> and the standard <p>Dell Chromebox</>, though the Asus desktop has its power switch on the side instead of on the top like the Dell systems. The Asus and <p>Dell Chromebox</>es sit on a desk horizontally, while other mini PCs like the <p>Acer Chromebox CXI-4GKM</> sit vertically. The Chromebox for Meetings comes with a VESA mounting bracket, so you can mount it behind a large-screen display or HDTV. The system has a pair of USB 3.0 ports on the front, with an SD card and Kensington lock port on the left side. On the back, you'll find a DisplayPort, an Ethernet port, an HDMI port, a headset jack, and two more USB 3.0 ports. Wireless connections include 802.11ac Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. While the system is a Chromebox, you can't get to the usual Chrome browser: The system is locked into the Google Hangouts interface. If you want a regular Chrome OS box for surfing and Google Docs work, then you should be looking at Dell's Chromebox desktop . This is a videoconferencing system, so to facilitate that, there's a Jabra Speak 410 USB speakerphone and a Logitech C920 1080p HD webcam bundled in. An RF remote with a QWERTY keyboard on its back rounds out the hardware. Video and sound from the included peripherals were clear and loud at both ends of the conversation. Attendees who join the conference late are automatically muted to prevent that telltale beep from disrupting the conference. One neat thing is that the main screen will switch to whoever is actively talking at the moment, and mute background noise from the other participants. The system handles the focus automatically, even if parties are rapidly switching or talking over each other. Logically, users of the <p>Dell Chromebox for Meetings</> are locked into using Google Hangouts and Google Apps for Work. That's not unprecedented, even at the consumer/SMB level, since some webcams like the Logitech TV Cam HD for Skype, for example, only work with Skype. If you're already using the Google Admin console screen in Chrome (i.e., if your IT guys are managing your company's Android phones or Chromebooks), then you have a common interface to manage Chromeboxes for meetings. We found it easy to add a single Chromebox for Meetings system to our test account provided by Dell, and though it got a little trickier when we added a second unit, we were able to get a quick Web conference started between the Chromeboxes and another attendees running Chrome on their laptops. After assigning a calendar to the Chromebox in the Admin console, the system acts like a physical conference room. You can invite it to a meeting after checking its schedule in Google Calendar or Google's plug-in for Outlook. Outside attendees can be invited via Google Calendar, and invites include links to the shared Hangout. The next few scheduled meetings will then show up on the Chromebox's home screen, like they would on a hotel's meeting board(s). Users don't have to sign in; once they click on a meeting with the remote they will be connected to the shared conference in Google Hangouts. The system can handle up to 15 active participants with video streams, up from the 10 participants you get with the free version of Google Hangouts. Those participants can be on other Chromeboxes for Meetings units, on a Chromebook, on an Android phone/tablet, iOS device, or on a PC or Mac running Chrome. You share your screen for document collaboration, but you'll need to initiate that from one of the laptops or desktops on the call. The controls on the system are rudimentary, and besides, you wouldn't want to mark up a document online using the relatively basic remote control, since it only has a simple four-way switch for cursor control. The document markup itself happens on the laptops, while the video conferencing appears on the screen. The Chromebox is really meant to be an alternative to that temperamental $5,000-to-$8,000 VoIP and video conferencing system in your conference room. The first year's subscription to the Google Hangouts/Meeting service and support is included in the system's purchase price, which you'll need to renew for $250 per year starting the second year. Software updates for the Chromebox for Meetings is included in the subscription. Other videoconferencing systems, like Fuze Meeting Pro, ooVoo Pro, and Skype for Business, are primarily online-based, but they don't have branded, certified turnkey solutions made to work with their respective services. The best you can do is to plug a Skype- or Lync-certified webcam into your laptop before online meetings. About only the direct competitor to the <p>Dell Chromebox for Meetings</> that we've reviewed is the LifeSize Room, but that costs $12,000 and is much more complex to set up. Prices have come down drastically since 2006, but they're still at least double that of the Chromebox for Meetings. With far flung employees, many companies can benefit from the cost savings of face-to-face meetings with videoconferencing. Since the <p>Dell Chromebox for Meetings</> does it over a flexible platform like Google Hangouts, it can put your product team in New York in touch with your SVP in Alaska, as well as the project leader who's on vacation on the Kentucky Bourbon Trail. Think of it as the large-screen, conference-room adjunct to your business' online video conferencing system. It has the potential to replace multi-thousand-dollar, proprietary videoconferencing systems with an IT-managed platform. Most participants will still be accessing the conference from their laptops and mobile devices, but you can present and talk to a group with this Chromebox. If you've moved your company to Google Apps, it's worth serious consideration.