There's thin, and then there's thin. The <p>Dell Adamo XPS</> ($2,000 street) takes the concept to another level as Dell's thinnest ultraportable. At 9.99mm, the Adamo XPS is so thin that it makes the claims of the original Adamo ($2,000 direct, ) and <p>Apple MacBook Air</> ($1,799 direct, ) almost laughable. In the end, though, that's all it is—a system of unquestionable style, with a very minimalist approach to performance and features. Design The Adamo XPS, now only available at Best Buy, is creativity at its leading-edge best, an engaging design that separates it from the merely functional. Wrapped completely in aluminum metals, the system measures just 0.4 inches throughout. This smashes the record claims held by its predecessor and the <p>Apple MacBook Air</> (which measured 0.76-inch thick at the back and sloping down to 0.16 inch at the front bezel). Its 13.3-by-10.7-by-0.4 inches (HWD) dimensions, however, are a bit deceiving. The Adamo XPS has the profile of a 15-inch laptop like the Apple MacBook Pro 15-inch ($1,699 list, ), only to reveal a screen almost the size of the one on the MacBook Air (13.3 inches). This would also explain why the Adamo XPS (3.4 lbs) is heavier than the MacBook (2.9 lbs), as well as other 13-inch ultraportables like the 3-pound Editors' Choice <p>Sony VAIO VPC-Z116GXS</> ($1,800 direct, ) and 3.3-pound <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X301</> ($3,000 direct, ). If there is any question about how sturdy the Adamo XPS is, holding the system in your hands will put it to rest. The metals are virtually unbendable like the MacBook Air, though neither of the two could probably survive a 3-foot drop. Thinness aside, the laptop has a unique way of opening. If you tried opening the laptop without first sliding your finger across the center of the front bezel, you'd be scratching your head for a while. The latches are triggered by heat sensors that only detect human skin, similar to how the Apple iPhone responds to touch. There's an indicator light right below the heat-sensing mechanism, which turns blue when the latches are released. Once opened, the hinges are elevated so that the laptop forms an odd-looking "T' shape. It's as if the keyboard is suspended in the air, with the top cover serving as both the screen and kickstand. I found the hinges to be quite sturdy as well, after putting as much weight on the keyboard as I could with the palms of my hands. This layout gives the keyboard a 30-degree slant, for a more ergonomic typing experience. All the keys are isolated from each other and raised a bit higher than the ones found on the Sony Z116GXS. It's an exceptional typing experience, even though the keyboard falls just short of full size (97%). Full-size keyboards, as well as better typing experiences, can be had with the Lenovo X301 and Macbook Air. And while the original Adamo, MacBook Air, and Sony VPC-116GXS have backlit keyboards, Dell couldn't make room for it in the Adamo XPS. The navigating experience is one of the best in the business, consisting of the wide touchpad and soft mouse buttons. The 13-inch widescreen is bright, but its 1,366-by-768 resolution isn't as impressive as the 1,600-by-900 one found in the Sony VPC-116GXS or the 1440-by-900 option found in the Lenovo X301. In terms of screen size and resolution, the viewing experience is very similar to that of the MacBook Air (1,280-by-800). Features Features, unfortunately, are usually the first casualties when making a laptop this thin. Though its feature set is slightly more impressive than that of the MacBook Air, the Adamo XPS still only has two USB ports, a DisplayPort, and a head phone jack. Dell also throws in an Ethernet USB dongle, because there isn't one built-in. With your Adamo XPS purchase, you also get a DisplayPort-to-DVI adapter and a 15-month subscription to McAfee's Security Suite. The Lenovo X301 and Sony Z116GXS, with their thicker frames, bundle in more features, including an optical drive, both VGA-Out and HDMI (or DisplayPort), and ExpressCard slots. For storage, the Adamo XPS ships with a 128GB SSD drive, which is half the capacity of the 256GB one found in the Sony Z116GXS. Both the Lenovo X301 and MacBook Air use spinning drives, but have options for SSDs as well. The twin speakers are situated on the underside of the touchpad, and because the entire keyboard is raised, they're actually decent and better sounding than that of the MacBook Air. The Adamo XPS has 802.11n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, but like the Sony Z116GXS, it couldn't make room for mobile broadband. Performance Performance is another tradeoff. Although the 1.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo U9400 processor and integrated graphics are adequate for basic computing tasks, you're paying a big premium for last year's parts. The SSD boosts performance somewhat, but the Adamo XPS is about as fast as the Editors' Choice <p>Asus UL30A-A1</> ($775 street, )—an $800 CULV laptop. The Sony Z116GXS, on the other hand, uses the latest Intel Core i5 processor and Nvidia graphics, making it the best performer in the ultraportable space. On the bright side, its video encoding (1:34) and CineBench R10 scores were faster than those of the MacBook Air and Lenovo X301. The other two are on the verge of getting the latest Intel upgrades, though. And as expected, the Adamo XPS is no match for newly minted ultraportables like the Sony Z116GXS and <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X201</> ($1,625 direct, ). Battery life isn't stellar, but the Adamo XPS includes two batteries: A 20WH (3-cell) and a 40WH (6-cell). The smaller battery fits flush with the base and drained in less than 2 hours (1:55) in MobileMark 2007 tests. The 40WH battery, meanwhile, drained in 3 hours 55 minutes. For extended travel, bringing both batteries with you is probably a good idea. At least you can swap out batteries, unlike the MacBook Air, which has a non-removable battery. The Sony Z116GXS and Lenovo X301, in contrast, will easily get you past 5 hours with their standard 6-cell batteries. The <p>Dell Adamo XPS</> is a marvel of laptop design, and seems destined to wind up on exhibit in an art museum—or at least get some get some promotion time on a prime-time TV show. There is simply nothing else like it on the market. That said, high-design comes at a high cost, in terms of cash, performance and features. If you're looking for a more complete ultraportable package, check out the <p>Sony VAIO VPC-Z116GXS</> or even the <p>Asus UL30A-A1</>.