The <p>Dell Precision Tower 5810</> ($17,321 as tested; starts at $1,199) is a gargantuan single-processor desktop workstation with an astronomical price tag. Its high-end Nvidia Quadro K6000 GPU and 10-core Intel Xeon processor are made for the deadline-fraught user who needs to work on multimillion-dollar projects with 3D graphics rendering. This system is so powerful that you could realistically expect to use it to completely create a CGI film from storyboarding to pre-visualization, to final rendering and editing. Those working in architecture, energy exploration, or biomedical research would also benefit here. For sheer power and wealth of features, the Tower 5810 is our top pick for single-processor workstations. Design and Features The Precision 5810 is built into a large tower chassis, measuring about 16.5 by 7 by 18.5 inches (HWD). It's far from portable, but it does have a good ergonomics. The front and back panel are perforated, providing good airflow through the chassis and over heat-producing components. The front face is a vertical bi-level, with an aluminum handle to help in moving the system around. There's another handle in the back for pulling the workstation under a desk from the other side. That's the main design philosophy of the Precision T5610 chassis: It's made for the IT pro who needs to service it. All the levers and touch points that move are marked with the same cornflower blue color, and they're all tool-less, so you can pop PCIe cards, the power supply, or hard drives in and out of the chassis in seconds. It's essentially the same chassis as the <p>Dell Precision T3610</>, a previous top pick. There are no hard drives in the system as tested. Instead, our review unit came configured with four 400GB Serially Attached Storage (SAS) SSDs in a RAID 0 array (for a total of 1.6TB of space). Each SSD costs an eye-watering $2,100, no doubt contributing to the $17K price of the whole system, an astonishing total, particularly since the base configuration starts at around $1,200. The 32GB of memory is a relatively cheap $815. Both of these options max out the system's memory DIMMs and internal storage bays. This lack of additional internal expansion almost replicates the same major drawback as our former top pick for single-processor workstations, the <p>Apple Mac Pro (2013)</>. But while you can easily remove and upgrade the memory and storage in the Mac Pro, you will certainly have to completely disassemble its chassis to upgrade its graphics or processor. In contrast, the Precision 5810 can be easily upgraded by your IT department. There is only one PCI slot available, but the system's other card slots are easily accessible. Inside our review unit is a 12GB Nvidia Quadro K6000 graphics card, a Thunderbolt 2 card, and a Remote Host Access Card. The Remote Host Access card can be used to connect via Ethernet locally with a thin-client terminal, in case you want to lock the workstation up in a server closet or other secure location. The thin client can also be on the other side of the world, so you can double- or triple-shift work on the workstation, keeping your project team productive 24/7. External connectivity is excellent. There are three USB 2.0 ports and a single USB 3.0 port on the front panel, along with headphone and microphone jacks. A tray is molded into the top panel so you can rest an external hard drive or other peripherals. A tray-loading DVD burner is on the front for your old-school CD and DVD storage. Note that all of the USB 3.0 ports on the system are black, instead of the usual blue. While aesthetically pleasing, it also means you'll have to look closely for the USB SS logo to find the faster USB 3.0 ports. On the back, there are an audio line in/out port, an Ethernet port, a PS/2 keyboard port, a PS/2 mouse port, a serial port, three more USB 2.0 ports, and three USB 3.0 ports. The system lacks both a media card reader and Wi-Fi, but both are easily added via USB. Software is minimal, which is unsurprising since the Precision Tower 5810 is a workstation. You really don't want any extra software beyond the Windows 7 Professional operating system on such a desktop, because extraneous software could cause conflicts and potentially muck up your projects. One added software utility is Dell's Precision Optimizer. This utility sets variables like GPU settings, Hyper-Threading, turning off processor cores, and power settings. Made to work with programs like Adobe Photoshop CS, Autodesk AutoCAD, Maya, and other workstation apps, the utility tracks which programs you're using at any given time, and tunes the system to work better. The Precision Tower 5810 has a three-year warranty. Performance Our review unit has an Intel Xeon E5-2687W v3 processor, which has 10 physical cores and Hyper-Threading. This means that the system can work on 20 streams of data simultaneously. This helped the system score 1,582 points on the CineBench R15 test, which is double that of the more economical <p>HP Z1 G2 </>and <p>Lenovo ThinkStation P300 SFF</> workstations. It isn't as robust as the HP Z840 (2,588 points), however, since the latter has two eight-core Xeon CPUs with Hyper-Threading working. Unfortunately, the <p>Apple Mac Pro (2013)</> was reviewed using older versions of our tests, so we can't directly compare scores. The system's multimedia test scores are also very good to excellent. It tied the HP Z840 on the Handbrake test (36 seconds), and was only a few seconds behind the latter on the Adobe Photoshop CS6 test (3:11). Its 3D test scores are excellent, topping the 3DMark Cloud Gate (33,357 points) and 3DMark Fire Strike Extreme (4,581) tests, as well as the Heaven (57 frames per seconds) and Valley (65fps) tests at Ultra quality. Though this isn't a gaming system, it is well suited for game design, and the test numbers give us hints about how the system is as rendering real-time 3D graphics, as in an architecture or CAD program. The system's score of 3,608 points on PCMark 8 Work Conventional shows that it will be speedy at day-to-day office tasks as well. Conclusion Sure, the <p>Dell Precision Tower 5810</> is incredibly pricey, due mainly to its Nvidia Quadro K6000 graphics card and four SAS SSDs. But if you're the type of person who regularly works on multiple multimillion-dollar contracts simultaneously, then the price tag might not seem daunting. If you have the budget for a system like this, the rewards you'll get will more than justify the $17K price tag. The Tower 5810 also outclasses the <p>Apple Mac Pro</> in terms of expandability and upgradability in the hands of your IT team. If you absolutely need a professional power PC like this, then the Precision Tower 5810 should be at the top of your list. That's why it's our Editors' Choice for single-processor workstations.