the <p>dell xps 700</> ($3,700 direct, $4,760 with 24-inch lcd widescreen monitor and 5.1 speakers) replaces the xps 600 as dell's flagship gaming desktop and, on the outside, it looks great. instead of a gussied-up workstation case, the xps 700 sports a brand-new, sculpted aluminum case and even more leds. it's certainly more attractive than the older xps, alienware area 51, and <p>alienware aurora </>models, and is arguably more attractive than the new alienware desktops as well. if you're an enthusiast who likes to install upgrades yourself, but still have reservations about building your own desktop, this is the system for you—as long as its locked core 2 duo processor or the fact that it's not as fast as some of its peers doesn't bother you. the xps 700 is massive: it dwarfs the other core 2 duo-powered gaming desktops i've got on the bench right now. it features a "forward-leaning" design that, while gimmicky, does set it apart from the others. dell sent me the red-paneled case, but it's also available in all black. the xps 600's ring of led lights has been replaced by bars of lights, which make the xps 700 even flashier than an alienware machine, though not quite as ostentatious as a voodoo pc (with its window on the side of the case). you can set the led lights to one of seven color settings, depending on your mood. the one i reviewed looked best in red, complementing the red front panel. the btx-style case is easy to pop open, and the "kickstand" i used to complain about (found on earlier xps desktops) is finally gone. in its place is a removable panel that hides a set of "wings" that you can open to keep the system up if you're worried about it being knocked over. the workstation-style clamshell case used for previous xps systems is also dead. with the xps 700, you can open the case door without having to lay the unit on its side (though dell still recommends that), and you should be able to open the case with only two hands, as opposed to the three you seemed to need with the old version. behind the xps 700's flashy exterior, there's a 2.66-ghz intel core 2 duo e6700 processor (not the top-of-the-line 2.93-ghz core 2 extreme x6800 i was expecting), 2gb of ddr2 memory, and a dual-sli graphics setup with a pair of 512mb nvidia geforce 7900gtx graphics cards. the motherboard is based on the nvidia nforce590 chipset, so it is ready for future graphics cards, including quad sli setups. there's plenty of space inside, and thanks to a 1,000-watt power supply in the red xps 700 (the black xps 700 systems have 750w power supplies), you're prepared for quad sli, raid 5 hard drive setups, and virtually anything else the upgrade wizards can think up. i like that dell put in a hefty graphics card retention system, so if you need to move your xps 700, you don't have to worry about your heavy graphics cards coming loose and tearing your motherboard apart (this has happened to me with preproduction quad sli preview systems from other manufacturers). since the case is so open inside and since the core 2 duo processor runs so cool, fan noise is hardly noticeable after you turn the system on. the fans do spin up reassuringly after you hit the power button, but quickly spool down to inaudible levels. during non-stressful periods, such as when you're surfing the web or listening to music, the xps 700 is almost silent—an improvement over past gaming desktops. when you're gaming, the fans on the processor and graphics cards do spool up, but you're less likely to notice them in this situation, when your attention is concentrated on your virtual world. the xps 700 is not quite as fast as some of its core 2 extreme-equipped rivals, and though it's still a strong performer, there are other choices to consider if you're looking for ultimate performance. the xps 700 achieved a sysmark internet content creation score of 440, which is great even when compared with systems with overclocked amd fx-62 processors (which scored 422 on icc), but the faster core 2 extreme-powered systems (which scored 501 with stock clock speed and 604 when overclocked) still outperform this pc. the xps 700 lagged behind the core 2 extreme-powered <p>gateway fx510xt</> in my standard windows media encoder test (by 20 seconds) and my adobe photoshop cs2 action set (by 3 seconds). both differences are negligible in the real world, but they are notable just the same. still, you save $500 by going with the e6700 processor over the x6800, so you do get a good bang for the buck by downgrading the processor. (you can configure the xps 700 with any of several processors, including the pentium d, pentium ee, core 2 duo, and core 2 extreme.) a word about overclockability (or the lack thereof): an unlocked x6800 processor can be overclocked using the presets in dell's system bios. since the e6700 processor in my review unit was locked, i couldn't boost the system's performance on demand, as i could have with an x6800-based unit. this is much more important to benchmark-test addicts than to normal humans, but i thought i'd point out it out as a (very slight) drawback to the processor downgrade. the <p>gateway fx510xt</> and falcon nw mach v i reviewed recently both came with unlocked x6800 cpus. the xps 700 i tested came with a pair of geforce 7900gtx graphics cards in a sli configuration. as expected, it motored through my 3d benchmark tests without breaking a sweat. the system's score of 9,990 on 3dmark06 is the best i've seen, and its other gaming scores are also at the top of the heap. compared with ostentatious, overclocked systems such as the <p>falcon northwest mach v</> (core 2 extreme) and the <p>voodoo omen a121</>x extreme gamer, the del xps 700 seems like a bargain. but compared with similarly priced systems such as the <p>gateway fx510xt</>, the xps 700 shows that you still pay a premium for a sexy-looking chassis. the xps 700 is "only" $20 more expensive (without a monitor) than the plainer fx510xt, but the fx510xt system came with a tv tuner, which the xps 700 lacks, and 400gb more drive space. the fx510xt also came with a faster, unlocked x6800 processor. if you're part of the $4,000 to $5,000 pc club (or thinking about becoming a member), the <p>dell xps 700</> is an attractive choice. it isn't as forehead-slappingly expensive as the boutique systems, but still manages to garner some of that crowd's cachet. it certainly isn't as boring-looking as its predecessor, and it is easier to upgrade. think of it as the high-performance system you won't be scared to crack open and upgrade, even if you never do. note: as we go to press, we're hearing reports of xps 700 buyers facing "interminable" delays in receiving their systems from dell. as with all new high-performance systems in general, initial supplies may be limited, since all the different computer manufacturers are trying to procure parts. as of mid-august, dell.com is reporting at least an 8- to 9-week lead time (late october) for delivering xps 700 systems. make sure to factor this into your buying decision. see how the <p>dell xps 700</> measures up to similar systems in our desktop comparison chart. benchmark test results check out the <p>dell xps 700</>'s test results .