Everybody wants to be the best, especially in PC gaming, where performance commands premium prices, and boutique vendors race to build systems with the hottest hardware every time a new part is released. It's a constant race to claim the title of most powerful gaming PC, and the latest entrant is the <p>Digital Storm Coridium</> a premium-priced high-end gaming desktop that pushes the envelope further than any system before. AMD's cutting-edge graphics card, the dual-chip Radeon R9 295X2, is the latest ammunition in the ongoing battle for faster, more powerful gaming rigs, and the Coridium boasts two of the beasts, plus an overclocked hex-core Intel Core i7 processor. The result is ridiculous power—enough to enjoy gaming on multiple 4K monitors—but it costs a whopping $7,779 (as tested). If you're looking for the fastest gaming rig around, and don't mind spending as much as a used Toyota Corolla, the Coridium is our new Editors' Choice for high-end gaming desktops. Design and Features The Coridium is built inside a Corsair Obsidian Series 450D chassis, which features a steel body, a brushed-aluminum the front panel, and a large, acrylic side window for showing off what's under the hood. The whole thing measures 19.44 by 8.26 by 19.56 inches (HWD), putting it squarely in the midtower category, and not so big as to overcrowd a desk. For this build, Digital Storm has slightly modified the front panel, filling the two drive bays with a tray-loading optical drive (12x Blu-ray and DVD writer/reader), and the front of a cooling reservoir for Digital Storm's own HydroLux liquid cooling system. Also on the front of the case is a Power button, two USB 3.0 ports, separate jacks for a headphone and microphones, and a Reset button. Around the back of the tower, you'll find plenty of connections, with nine USB ports (four USB 3.0, five USB 2.0), one dedicated port for BIOS Flash, and two USB/eSATA combination ports. There's a PS/2 port for older gaming peripherals, and a FireWire 400 port, along with Gigabit Ethernet, S/PDIF for digital surround sound, and other standard audio ports. There are two graphics cards inside, combining to offer two DVI-D outputs and eight mini DisplayPorts. Open up the left side of the case, and you'll find an Asus Sabertooth X79 motherboard, set up for overclocking and outfitted with an Intel Core i7-4930K hex-core processor overclocked to 4.6GHz. Right next to the CPU you'll find not one, but two giant AMD Radeon R9 295X2 graphics cards, dual-chip cards built for blazing graphics performance at 4K resolution. With two dual-chip cards in Quad-Crossfire configuration, there's a lot of hardware between you and the motherboard, but we could see that our review unit came with 16GB of RAM, with four 4GB sticks of 1866MHz Corsair Vengeance Pro RAM filling four of the eight available slots. All of this high-powered hardware generates a lot of heat and demands a lot of power. The two graphics cards have built-in liquid cooling, so each card has tubing and a radiator to contend with, in addition to the overclocked processor, which is cooled with its own Digital Storm HydroLux cooler, with its radiator positioned just below the optical drive. It's a mess of tubing, and while it's surprisingly quiet, it will complicate any maintenance work or upgrades inside the case. Then there are the power requirements; the overclocked hex-core processor needs a lot of juice, but the pair of AMD R9 295X2 cards have heavy power demands and specific support requirements. As such, the Coridium is powered by a 1,500-watt Silverstone power supply. Crack open the right side of the case, and you'll see two identical-looking Samsung EVDO solid-state drives (SSDs). One SSD serves as a boot drive, with 250GB capacity, while the other 1TB SSD is the storage drive. Opting for the two slim SSDs is a smart move, since they can be tucked out of the way without having to contend with the bulk of a regular hard drive—with multiple radiators, five cooling fans, and a sizeable PSU, there's not a lot of free space in this tower. The flash-based storage also offers faster performance than spinning drives, so it contributes to the already-obscene speed promised by the Coridium. Performance Speaking of speed, the Coridium delivered some impressive numbers on our benchmark tests. Between the overclocked Intel Core i7-4930K hex-core processor and the two beastly Radeon R9 295X2 graphics cards, the Coridium chewed through all of our tests without hesitation, easily taking its place among the fastest, most powerful systems we've reviewed. The Coridium is built to harness the might of two Radeon R9 295X2 graphics cards, and the graphics performance is definitely the highlight of the system, putting every comparable system to shame in our gaming tests. In Aliens vs. Predator at 1,366-by-768 resolution and low detail settings, the Coridium shattered records with a category-leading 641 frames per second (fps), and 302fps when dialed up to 1,920-by-1,080 with full detail settings. In Heaven, the Coridium produced 245fps at baseline settings, and 245fps at 1,920-by-1,080 and full detail settings. These results put it in the upper echelon of top-tier systems, even outdoing other multiple-GPU systems, like the <p>Falcon Northwest Mach V (Triple Titan)</>. And at full 4K resolution the Coridium will still play any game, at maximum settings and full resolution, and offer impressive frame rates doing it. For those who want to use some of this power for something other than gaming, the overclocked CPU offers potent performance on its own, with a CineBench score of 13.88 points, putting it ahead of almost every competitor. The Coridium completed Handbrake in 20 seconds, which is slightly ahead of other high-powered competitors, but that performance wasn't consistent across all multimedia applications. In Photoshop CS6, the Coridium completed our test in 4 minutes 46 seconds; it's an admirable score, but nowhere near the 2:41 of the <p>Falcon Northwest Mach V (Triple Titan)</>, or the 2:30 of the <p>Maingear Epic Rush X79</>. Conclusion The <p>Digital Storm Coridium</> is far from affordable, and even with overclocking and top-tier components, it doesn't quite offer the best general-use performance. But it does one thing better than any other gaming rig we've seen: pump out more frames at higher resolutions than any other machine we've tested. If you want the very best 4K gaming performance, nothing tops the Coridium with its double-dose of dual-GPU AMD cards. It puts our former Editors' Choice, the <p>Falcon Northwest Fragbox (GeForce GTX 780 SLI)</> to shame in gaming tests, and it pulls ahead of the similarly priced <p>Falcon Northwest Mach V (Triple Titan)</>. If pure, unbridled graphics performance is what you're after, the <p>Digital Storm Coridium</> delivers like no other. It's our Editors' Choice for high-end gaming desktops.