Falcon Northwest's latest foray into the gaming arena, the Mach V (Core i7-980X) ($4,999 direct, $6,388 with three 24-inch monitors) is an excellent gaming system for the upper strata of the hardcore gaming public. It's powered by a six-core Intel Core i7-980X processor and a dual-GPU ATI Radeon HD 5970 graphics card. Other innovations like the triple-monitor ATI Eyefinity setup make you sit up and go "wow." Design The design of the Mach V "ICON" case hasn't changed too much over the past few years, because there's little reason to. Sure, cases like the one on the <p>HP Blackbird 002</> ($6,590 direct, ) and <p>Maingear Shift</> ($6,399 direct, ) show some forward thinking and new ideas like removable hard drive sleds, but the aluminum chassis of the Mach V is big enough to support a variety of motherboards. Plus, it can hold three high-end graphics cards and a half-dozen hard drives and optical drives. Keep in mind, you'll need to use a screwdriver to add extra hard drives, unlike newer desktops like the <p>Maingear Shift</> and Gateway FX6831 (stay tuned for our review). I like the drive upgrade sleds that the Maingear and Gateway desktops use, since hard drive space is the next "easy upgrade" after system memory. Falcon uses this chassis partly because it has worked for them in the past, but also because its vast flat surfaces are an excellent canvas for their hand painted systems. We got a bare metal chassis, but you can customize your Mach V with anything from a simple single color to an epic scene from your favorite game or movie. The Falcon logo on the front panel is lit up, and behind the logo, there are four optical drive bays. One is occupied by the system's BD-ROM (Blu-ray)/DVD burner combo drive. There's also a multimedia card reader, with slots for newer cards like microSD and SDHC. The back of the case has the system's USB, FireWire and eSATA ports. The two eSATA ports are notable because they are paired with USB ports for power, so you can use one of the rare eSATA drives that draws USB power simultaneously over the same cable. Another new technology is in the system's two USB 3.0 ports: they are backwards-compatible with USB 2.0 devices, but when you connect a USB 3.0 drive, you'll get much faster transfer speeds. A pair of FireWire ports (one four-pin and one six-pin) are available for people still using older hard drives or camcorders. I would have liked to have seen an extra bracket like a cardkeeper on the heavy ATI Radeon HD 5970 graphics card. The cardkeeper can help keep the card immobilized during shipping. When I first booted the system, I got an error I'd seen before: the system wouldn't fully boot into Windows 7. It's a simple fix: I had to reseat the graphics card after the shipper had knocked it about. The rest of the system was certainly well put together, but those graphics cards with their massive metal heat sinks can become like beans in a maraca if your delivery guy isn't gentle. Features The Mach V (Core i7-980X) came with an Intel 80GB SSD and a 1TB data drive. The SSD helps to speed up booting up the system and loading games and other apps, while the 1TB drive is a fairly large storage capacity. The Intel SSD has one drawback: it is kind of small at 80GB. I had to uninstall some of my tests in order to run the next set because I ran out of disc space. Falcon NW has told me that faster and larger SSDs capable of 6Gbps throughput are now available, for a couple of hundred dollars more. The system also came with a Blu-ray reader with DVD burner combo drive. I would have liked to have seen a Blu-ray burner in a system at this price point. In any case, the system is still a powerhouse, since it comes with 12GB of memory, and the Intel Core i7-980X processor. The system also came with three widescreen LCD monitors, which helps explain its $6,400 purchase price. Drop the monitors, and the system price alone is $4,999. Yup, that's still high, but the monitors allow a hardcore gamer to use ATI's Eyefinity ultra-widescreen technology. Take three compatible (and hopefully identical) monitors, connect them to the same ATI Radeon 5970 graphics card, then you will be able to play games with a much wider field of view. Think of it this way: on a normal 16:9 monitor, you can see out of the front windshield while playing a racing game. With Eyefinity, you can see out of the windshield, and both the right and left side windows, including all three rear view mirrors. This gives you the ability to pass your opponents within inches, instead of feet. It can also work on first person-shooter games like Alien vs. Predator, so you can see around your character at all times, rather than just what's in front of you. Performance Falcon built its reputation on the quality and the speed of their systems. The Mach V (Core i7-980X) is no different. It returned some of the fastest benchmark results I've seen, even approaching or besting previous systems with multiple graphics cards. The Mach V returned our best-ever score on Windows Media Encoder: 20 seconds. To put that into perspective, mainstream systems like the <p>Dell Inspiron i570-6939PBK</> ($598.99 list, ) take upward of a minute on the same task, and nettops can take 3 to 5 minutes. Other quad-core systems take about 30 seconds. The Mach V (Core i7-980X) was also speedy at the PhotoShop CS4 test, at 48 seconds. Older quad core performance PCs can take up to four minutes at the CS4 test. In the Futuremark PCMark Vantage test, the Mach V (Core i7-980X) got our second-best overall score of 20,766. It's safe to say that this system will take your everyday tasks and finish them almost instantaneously. The Mach V (Core i7-980X) is a gaming-oriented desktop, and it's certainly a force to be reckoned with. The system's Crysis score of 117 frames per second (fps) at 1,280 by 1,024 resolution and World in Conflict (WIC) scores of 188 at the same resolution are hiccup free. The Mach V is also able to play WiC quite smoothly at the higher 1,920 by 1,200 resolution (87 fps). Crysis at 1,920 by 1,200 is almost playable 42 fps: gamers at this resolution may see the occasional stutter. Adding a second ATI Radeon 5970 may help: the <p>Maingear Shift</> was able to run the same test at smooth 72 fps. The gaming prowess is a result of the massive ATI Radeon HD 5970 graphics card, which has two GPU modules combined on one card. The new Mach V (Core i7-980X) is certainly as fast or faster on the games as triple-SLI (three Nvidia GeForce card-equipped) systems of the past. Compared with the previous Mach V (Core i7-975) ($8,240 direct, ), the Core i7-980X version is a performance monster. It matches or beats the old Editor's Choice for gaming on most of the benchmarks, and adds triple-monitor support with only one graphics card. It also trounces other high end gaming competitors with single, dual, and triple graphics cards from last year. However, the <p>Maingear Shift</> is the overall performance leader. The Shift also has a new chassis design that manages heat better, has cardkeeper brackets, and is nicer to look at unpainted. However don't count the Mach V out; it is a very good machine for high-end gamers and those loyal to Falcon Northwest.