The new <p>Falcon Northwest Talon (Core i7-860)</> ($2,495 direct) is totally new. Previous Talon models came in the same mid tower case, but with this iteration, Falcon has a new case design as well as new internals that make it one of the faster performers we've tested at PCMag Labs. It's got the stuff to run high-end PC games, as well as the expandability to help you feed your habit in the future. About the only drawback is that you have to pay dearly for the system: $2,500 is pretty steep in this economy. As it stands, the Talon (Core i7-860) is certainly a gaming system you can brag about, but you'll find a harder time trying to convince your accountant (or your spouse) that you "need" a system like this. Design The new chassis has features that make it better for the gamers who pay attention to detail. It has a door that hides the optical drive and digital memory card reader, which in turn helps it look less cluttered. Furthermore, the door and the front panel are perforated for airflow, which helps keep the internals cool. Even though the system has two graphics cards and other fans all over, the system is quiet. You'd be hard pressed to hear it under a desk or from more than 5 feet away. The USB and FireWire ports move to the top of the case, within easy reach if you have the system on the floor like most people with tower PCs do. Speaking of reach, since many games still come on discs, the front panel has a clear LED light bar above the optical drive that helps you load the drive in a darkened room. The back of the case is (still) the usual face covered in I/O ports. How about the ports? You'll find ten USB ports total, one FireWire, and two eSATA ports, along with the usual array of audio and DVI ports. Internal wiring is up to the excellent standards that Falcon has set for itself in the past (quite neat and tidy). If there are any pet peeves I have with the case, it's that the case door only opens up 90-degrees, and that may not be enough it you put the case on the floor to the left of your feet. Features Like most Falcon NW PCs, there is a decent amount of expansion space inside the case. Even though the system already has two PCIe x16 graphics cards, the motherboard will accept another. There's also a free PCI slot free, but don't expect to use both free slots if you decide to drop in another double-wide Nvidia GeForce GTX 275 graphics card. The system has a 700W power supply, which is plenty for the overclocked processor and two graphics cards. The Talon (Core i7-860) has an 80GB SSD (Solid State Drive), which is speedy and helps explains the system's almost $2,500 price tag (80GB Intel SSDs go for about $400 alone). The SSD helps the system boot up and load apps much faster than a traditional hard drive, making up for its relatively low capacity. There's also a regular 1TB spinning hard drive in the Talon for data storage. Performance Falcon NW was able to overclock the Core i7-860 processor (codenamed "Lynnfield) from its 2.8GHz stock clock speed up to a peak of around 3.4GHz (~3.399), measured while I was running CineBench R10 on all four cores/eight threads. The two Nvidia GeForce GTX 275 graphics cards in a dual-card SLI configuration is why the system got top scores on 3DMark Vantage (63,719 Entry settings and 10,934 in Extreme settings). The Talon (Core i7 860) also got top Crysis scores at 1,920 by 1,200 (35 frames per second) and World in Conflict at 1,920 by 1,200 (72 fps). Sure, triple-card SLI systems have done better, but that's another $600 or so for the third card and higher performance-rated motherboard. The Talon's 83 fps on Crysis and 109fps in World in Conflict, at 1,280 by 1,024 resolution, are nothing to scoff at, but the Talon with Core i7-950 and single GeForce GTX 285 card did a little better at 1,280 by 1,024 resolution (Crysis 98 fps, WiC 123 fps), though the older Talon couldn't keep up at the higher 1,920 by 1,200 resolution thanks to having only one graphics card. The system's multimedia performance was, of course speedy, with a class-leading 29 seconds at Windows Media Encoder test and a still very good 1:07 at PhotoShop CS4. Both scores are among the highest of system's I've reviewed this year, and are excellent scores for both multimedia and gaming systems. Last but not least, the system's PCMark Vantage score of 12,446 is one of the highest I've seen on a system on a systems in this price range. PCMark Vantage measures all around performance, not just multimedia or gaming prowess. Compared with the competition, the Falcon NW Talon (Core i7-860) is a blazing performer: It bests the comparison units on six of the ten numbers we regularly run. In fact, previous the Talon (Core i7-950) was the only one to beat it on the other four tests, though the Editors' Choice <p>Velocity Micro Edge Z30</> ties the Talon (Core i7-860) on the WME test. The Talon (Core i7-860) is better suited than its predecessor to everyday life, since the new Lynnfield architecture is less about pure speed and more about adaptable speed (see our articles on PCMag.com and extremetech.com for more on the new Lynnfield processors and related chipset). It's quieter and more expandable than the AVADirect GT3 and <p>Velocity Micro Edge Z30</>. The system is more expandable than the <p>HP Firebird with VoodooDNA 803</> (but that's quiet) and is much quieter than the <p>Polywell Poly 790GX3</> (but that's expandable). Plus, buying from a company like Falcon NW ensures that the system will come Bloatware-free. But the main issue is cost: For a lot less money, the Velocity Micro Z30 comes with the same processor (slightly lower clocked) and "only" one lower-spec GeForce GTX 260 graphics card, yet is within a few percentage points behind the Talon (Core i7-860) in terms of performance. The 3DMark and PCMark scores of the Talon (Core i7-860) are significantly faster than those of the Edge Z30. However, both games are almost equally playable on either system, though the SLI-equipped Talon will scale better to larger monitors, and multimedia scores are close enough that the two systems are in a dead heat. Day to day use on the Talon will feel faster (i.e., less time "waiting for things to happen") though, thanks to its speedy SSD. The Talon (Core i7-860) is quieter, bigger, and has the Blu-ray reader and SSD, but all of those don't add up to almost $1,200 of "better." You can almost buy two Edge Z30s for the price of one Talon (Core i7-860). In terms of performance and braggability, the Talon (Core i7-860) is a contender, but it receives a beatdown on the bang for the buck scale.