The Mach V Core (i7-975), priced at $8,240 direct ($5,515 without paint and SSDs), is the new top of Falcon Northwest's line. It's the computer equivalent of a McLaren F1 supercar: very fast and very expensive, and if you own a truly tricked-out one, you're in the company of a select few. The latest Mach V came to us with Intel's new Core i7-975 Extreme Edition processor, overclocked to an astounding 4.38 GHz, and three of Nvidia's GeForce GTX 285 graphics cards. It has the power to dominate the gaming grid without breaking a sweat, and does so in style. It's certainly braggable, but is it the top of the heap? Read on. Like many of the Mach V systems we've seen at PC Labs, this one is built into Falcon's Exotix case. It's got an automotive paint job with a subtle color shift from a rich blue to a blue/green. Alternatives include no paint—a plain metal case—or a more elaborate paint job for yet bigger bucks. The case has plenty of room for the three graphics cards, two solid-state drives (SSDs), a 2-terabyte spinning hard drive, a Blu-ray burner/HD DVD reader/DVD burner combo drive, another DVD burner, 12GB of memory, and a partridge in a pear tree. (Well, you get the idea.) The catch is that although the Mach V has ample space under the hood for expansion—namely, four free hard-drive bays and four free optical-drive bays—it's not very accessible. There's only one visible SATA port on the motherboard, and the rest of the SATA ports (ten in total) are on the front edge of the motherboard and are hard to get to. Any free PCI/PCIe card slots are covered by the three graphics cards, so if you want wireless networking, you'll need to go USB. I'd recommend sending the system back to Falcon NW when it comes time to upgrade. If you can afford to have someone build you an $8,000 system, you can afford to send it back in for service. This configuration has the custom paint and the two 256GB SSDs, but if you uncheck those two items, you can get the same system for $5,515—a $2,725 savings. The Mach V has Intel's latest Core i7-975 processor. Its 3.33-GHz standard clock speed is only a modest speed bump over its predecessor's (the i7-965) 3.2-GHz, but Falcon has overclocked the i7-975 to a blistering 4.38 GHz with the help of sealed-liquid cooling. On our tests, it chalked up the results to match. As befits the price, the Mach V is quite the performer. Under testing, it achieved the highest-ever scores on seven of the ten tests we currently use at PCMag.com. It scored 15,559 points on PCMark Vantage—a test of the system's overall performance prowess—which is more than 2,000 points higher than what the Maingear ePhex, our former top scorer, achieved. Likewise, the Mach V topped the 3DMark Vantage test with an outrageous score of 83,083 on the entry-level test, and 17,326 on the extreme level test. 3DMark Vantage uses 3D and CPU tests to see how theoretically, a system will score on games that use many of the tools in the modern game developer's toolbox, and the extreme test is the benchmark suite's toughest shot. (When systems consistently score higher than 10,000 on 3DMark Vantage or PCMark Extreme, it's time for FutureMark to come out with newer versions—in other words, these tests are too easy for the Mach V.) The Mach V was able to finish the Windows Media Encoder test in 23 seconds and the Photoshop CS4 test in 46 seconds, both excellent numbers. To put them into perspective, an average budget system, the eMachines T1161-03, takes 1:32 to do the WME test and more than 4 minutes to do the Photoshop test. The Mach V is a multimedia powerhouse. Of course, Falcon NW made its name on its gaming expertise, and the Mach V delivers—for the most part. It runs away with the title of fastest on the World in Conflict (WiC) test at 1,920 by 1,200 (97 fps), and produces playable speeds on all the other tests. It gets very good scores at Crysis: 108 fps at 1,280 by 1,024 and 54 fps at 1,920 by 1,200. Only the Maingear ePhex has been able to break the 60-fps barrier at 1,920 by 1,200, with a score of 70 fps. The remaining WiC score, at 1,280 by 1,024, was a butter-smooth 155 fps. Translation: The Mach V is able to play today's games smoothly, even at extreme resolutions like 1,920-by-1,200 and with all the eye candy and special effects turned on— the way the designers intended, and not many other systems can manage. The Mach V gives you more performance and computer than the Falcon NW FragBox 2 (Core i7) for (a little) less money. The Fragbox 2 is a lot more portable, but the Mach V, as expected, is more capable. Also, the Mach V (Core i7-975) absolutely destroys the previous Mach V (Core i7) as well as the AVADirect Uberous X58 SLI, both of which run ATI Radeon HD 4870 X2 CrossFire graphics. The distinction is a little muddier when you compare the Mach V with the <p>Vigor Force Recon T7n</> and the <p>Maingear Ephex (Core i7)</>. The Mach V bested these two combatants in seven of the ten tests, but the other three tests (Crysis at both resolutions and World in Conflict at 1,280-by-1,024) are pitched battles with a mix of winners. And of course, the 3D game benchmark tests are the battles you want your system to sweep. The Vigor is the least expensive (even when you drop SSD and Paint from the Mach V customizing list), but it's the least easy to live with, particularly its boatload of fan noise and the tiny 32GB SSD it uses as a C: drive. (The Vigor is kind of like a dragster: a great performance machine but one that sucks as a daily vehicle to go get groceries in.) The ePhex is tougher: Both the Maingear and the Falcon have nice painted cases, great build quality and cable routing, and smoking performance numbers. The ePhex is significantly less expensive, at $7,799, though its water-based liquid cooling system requires more maintenance than the sealed-liquid system the Mach V employs, and its flexible cooling tubes would make it a bear to upgrade. But the Falcon wins on the benchmark tests overall, and it has more space in its C: drive, since it uses two 256GB SSDs connected together into a 512GB RAID 0 array, to the Maingear's single 80GB drive. Ultimately I'd chalk the Falcon's win up to the fact that it scored the highest on most of the benchmark tests, and did so with a more reliable cooling system. The <p>Falcon Northwest Mach V (Core i7-975)</> seals a victory for the Oregon-based system builder, thanks to the tweaking done on the Core i7-975 processor, its triple SLI graphics cards, and its build quality. It didn't win every performance test, but it did get the highest scores ever on a majority of them. The ultimate test of an über-gaming system is: Can you brag about it to your friends without too much sniping? And the answer to that question is a strong "yes." Check out the <p>Falcon Northwest Mach V (Core i7-975)</>'s performance test results.