Gateway's flagship convertible tablet PC has a little brother now. The <p>Gateway C-120X</> ($1,808 direct), with a 12-inch widescreen, is a pint-sized, low-power version of the <p>Gateway M285-E</>. The latter, a 14-inch convertible tablet with discrete graphics and a huge battery, is primarily a desktop replacement laptop. It's one I've often recommended to tablet enthusiasts who have a thirst for performance and screen space. Those looking for something smaller have been out of luck—until now. The C-120X's big advantage is that you can actually stand and write with it, but its performance isn't where it ought to be for a tablet of this size. It's been almost five years since Gateway made its first 12-inch tablet debut. That effort was considered a failed partnership with Motion Computing that resulted in a lackluster slate tablet. The C-120X keeps up with current tablet designs. It integrates a swivel hinge that lets you rotate the screen for handwriting or typing purposes. With a magnesium-alloy design, it feels sturdier than the <p>Fujitsu LifeBook T4210</> and the <p>HP Pavilion tx1000</>, but I think the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X60 Tablet</>, the current Editors' Choice, still has the upper hand. At 4.8 pounds, the C-120X is nearly half a pound heavier than the Lenovo tablet (4.4 pounds). The extra weight is attributed to the C-120X's integrated optical drive, but then again, its battery is significantly smaller than the X60's. In a sense, the differences cancel each other out. Gateway has gone with a widescreen format and a 1,280-by-800 resolution, whereas Lenovo opts for a standard 1,024-by-768 resolution. Both tablets have bright screens with outdoor viewing capabilities. Having a widescreen is beneficial to Web surfers who view pages in portrait mode. A standard screen, on the other hand, is a better fit for frequent travelers and snug briefcases. Gateway realizes the importance of adding a responsive, full-size keyboard, but Lenovo's keyboard still provides a better typing experience. The C-120X's screen rotates 180 degrees, transforming the laptop into a slate tablet while concealing the keyboard. The Wacom digitizer pen ejects from the left-hand side and is released by pushing the pen in. It has a standard grip, almost generic, unlike the rubberized one found on the Lenovo or the Mont Blanc feel (a lot thicker, with a better grip) of the Motion Computing LE1700's pen. The system loads Vista Ultimate, with support for the tablet edition. You can get the same tablet abilities with Vista Home Premium and save yourself $160. The excellent handwriting recognition is more a function of the operating system, but having a good pen and solid screen adds to the experience. Overall, the writing experience on the C-120X is very good. I like the media keys that Gateway added around the perimeter of the screen. The "OK" key is really an Enter key for closing dialog boxes, loading Web pages, and the like. There's a screen-orientation button that lets you easily toggle between portrait and landscape mode, which is a must for tablets. Another button launches Vista's Mobility center, where you can adjust anything from the volume to the brightness of the screen. I would have liked to have seen physical volume controls on the screen. That's because the speakers' sound quality, thanks to their placement, is awesome for such a small tablet. Gateway designed the C-120X so that the speakers are exposed from the back. The extra space they create also serves as a gripping handle when you're resting the unit on one forearm and writing with the other hand. The Lenovo X60 Tablet has a similar handle created by the extended battery. Like the LifeBook T4210, the C-120X integrates a DVD burner. This is the one thing that Lenovo's tablet lacks—although it does have an expensive ($299) dock with built-in DVD burner available. The rest of the C-120X's features are pretty standard, including two USB ports, a FireWire port, a 6-in-1 card reader (SD, MiniSD, MS, MS Pro, MMC, RSMMC), fingerprint reader, and a PC Card slot. Gateway is still reluctant to move to the ExpressCard standard because its customers in government and education continue to rely on legacy PC Card devices. The 4.8-pound system integrates an ultra-low-voltage processor, and its performance suffers for that. (Other systems in the same weight class, such as the Fujitsu T4210 and the Lenovo X60 tablet, use standard-voltage processors.) The 1.06-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo U7500 CPU produced laggard numbers on SYSmark 2007 Preview. (By the way, the C-120X is the first tablet to run BAPCo's industry benchmark test. I'm a bit excited because the new version of SYSmark now has full support for Vista, and this is the first time any tablet has completed a BAPCo test successfully.) Gateway integrates 2GB of RAM to offset Vista's hefty requirements, but that's not enough to offset the slow processor. The C-120X took more than 2 minutes to complete our Adobe Photoshop test. Similarly, its video-encoding scores approached 3 minutes, and it scored in the mid-200s on CineBench 9.5. It uses Intel's integrated graphics, which is common on 12-inch convertible tablets. If your line of work involves intensive 3D drawing, you can always opt for the 14-inch Gateway M-285E, with its discrete nVidia graphics. Battery life is usually impressive on Gateway laptops, but not this time. The C-120X bundles a 39-Wh (4-cell) battery, which produced a measly 1 hour 40 minutes running down a DVD. Granted, you can add a 6-cell battery for $40, but that doesn't compare with the 12-cell option found on the <p>Gateway E-265M</>. You'll also find better battery life on the ThinkPad X60 Tablet (3:45). Like many PC makers, Gateway offers a standard one-year parts and labor warranty, but it doesn't cover accidental damage. For that, you'll have to upgrade to Gateway's three-year accidental plan for $99. Similarly, a three-year standard warranty plan will cost you $159. Both plans are actually very reasonable, given on the price of the system. You get a 90-day trial version of McAfee's Internet Security Suite, which includes a VirusScan, Personal Firewall, SpamKiller, and Privacy service. Upgrading to a three-year subscription will run you $99. The <p>Gateway C-120X</> adds a portable convertible tablet to complement its bigger, more impressive sibling, but competition in the tablet space has gotten tough. The $1,800 price is in the same league as offerings from Fujitsu and Lenovo, which have better components and features. On top of that, the performance numbers don't live up to the cool design. You could probably get a good deal from Gateway if you wait until prices drop. In the meantime, the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X60 Tablet</> is your best bet, and if you need an integrated optical drive, check out the <p>Fujitsu LifeBook T4210</>. Benchmark Test Results Check out the <p>Gateway C-120X</>'s test scores.