Gateway's FX530XT (Vista) ($4,120 direct, $4,500 with 24-inch widescreen LCD monitor) is the latest in from Gateway's high-end gaming and multimedia powerhouse line. I've said that these gaming systems far and away have the technology to support the next generation of applications and operating systems, and the FX530XT is no exception. The FX530XT is a blazing performer that should satisfy all but the most jaded (and well heeled) gearheads. It competes with high-end systems from Dell, Falcon Northwest, Velocity Micro, and Voodoo PC. It keeps up with these pricey performance systems, yet still (with display) list for just under $5,000. Oh yeah, and now it's available with Windows Vista. My colleague Loyd Case looked at a FX530XT in our Quad Core roundup a few months ago, and externally the system hasn't changed: it has the same sports car-inspired chassis with its air scoops, prominent logo, and red accents. The FX530XT is totally the Ford Shelby GT500 to the Dell XPS 710's Chevy Corvette: similar performance, slightly more utilitarian looks, and a more reasonable price tag. The XPS 710 is more of an instantly recognizable design statement like the Corvette, but the FX530XT has the masculine utilitarian vibe of the Mustang-based Shelby. The case is beefy inside as well: two sturdy bars hold the heavy ATI Radeon graphics cards in the FX530XT's case. These cards have extremely heavy copper heat sinks, which make them shift during shipping. This method of holding the Radeon cards in place is much better than that of some of the other high-end PC makers, even on systems costing as much as $8,000. In other systems, I've seen these bars made out of easily moved plastic. Some high-end PCs lack the bars entirely. The card brackets may make it harder to get to the internals to upgrade components, but in my experience that's a small price to pay. I've received several systems from high-end manufacturers with extensive internal damage from the graphics cards coming loose during shipping and then banging around the chassis. You don't want this to happen to your new $4,000 performance machine. Component-wise, the latest FX530XT is mostly the same as the last one we looked at: the same 3.2GHz overclocked Intel Core 2 Quad QX6700 processor, ATI Radeon X1950 CrossFire graphics, Sound Blaster X-Fi sound card, and dual Western Digital Raptor 10,000-rpm hard drives. The FX530XT has an ATI Theater 550 Pro TV tuner card, so you can record your favorite shows in the background while you frag your opponents in the foreground. Multi-core computing is a wonderful thing. This new FX530 comes with 4GB of DDR2-667 memory, while the last one had 2GB. I chalk this up to Gateway wanting to stay ahead of Windows Vista's more strenuous requirements compared to Windows XP. With 4GB and the rest of the high-end components, the FX50XT is ready for multimedia, most 3D games currently available (at least in XP), and just about any strenuous task you do on your PC. Needless to say, Vista is faster than fast on the FX530XT: 4GB of system memory working in concert with Vista's SuperFetch technology means that you will spend less time waiting for stuff to happen. SuperFetch monitors your computing habits and the system preloads the programs and data you're likely to use into memory. It's SuperFetch will note that it's 5:45pm on a Friday, so you're most likely going to be playing Half Life 2, so it pre loads HL2's data and core program before you do. The overclocked quad core QX6700 isn't too shabby, either, giving the FX530XT class-leading performance. The FX530XT is a dream to work with, at least on the multimedia side: its Photoshop CS2 score is among the fastest I've seen, at 28-29 seconds in both XP and Vista. The QX6700 processor and 4GB of memory likely deserve credit for these speed scores: it's like you're done before you get the chance to be impatient. Likewise, the FX530XT is a speedy Windows Media Encoding machine. On our new HD (1080p) Windows Media encoding test, the FX530XT finished in 51 seconds in Vista, 57 seconds in XP. This is less than half the time it took on mainstream PCs. One neat thing to look out for is the quick reacting cooling fans: when the FX530XT is doing work, like running the render test in CineBench or the watercolor filter in Photoshop CS2, you can hear the fan spin up as the processor requires more cooling. The fan quickly spools down once the task is finished, so most of the time the system runs cool and relatively quiet. The fact that Gateway does this without esoteric cooling methods like liquid cooling is a plus. The Quad-core QX6700, plus 4GB, plus 10,000-rpm RAID hard drives equals high-end multimedia performance. Due to driver issues, the FX530XT's 3D performance was a mixed bag. Futuremark's 3DMark06 benchmark test was one of the first 3D programs updated for Vista, so 3Dmark06 runs fine on the FX530XT and returns an impressive score over 10,000 points in Vista. We were able to run both Prey and Company of Heroes in XP, and both games were playable in XP, even at 2,560 by 1,600 resolution. However, we couldn't run Prey in Vista without crashes, and we got mixed results in Company of Heroes. Company of Heroes ran at a disappointing 46 fps in Vista at 1,280 by 1,024 (vs. 90 fps in XP), and didn't run at all at 2,560 by 1,600. I surmise that 3DMark06 ran fine because ATI has had time to optimize their Vista drivers for 3DMark, but hasn't quite finished the fixes for Company of Heroes and Prey. I can all but guarantee that ATI and the game developers will have these bugs fixed and patched before the winter ends, but nonetheless it is frustrating not being able to finish testing this time around. If you're looking for a Vista-powered gaming system, wait a few months for the games and graphics driver developers to sort this mess out. By the time this happens, DirectX 10 games should be out, so we'll have to revisit 3D Vista testing at that time. For the record, I've had problems running Prey in Vista on other systems with single and dual ATI and nVidia graphics cards, so it's not unique to ATI or Gateway. Compared with rivals like the <p>Alienware Area-51 7500</> and the Dell XPS 710, the Gateway FX530XT represents a great value, with only slightly more utilitarian looks. The FX530XT is an even better bargain when compared to the esoteric high-end systems from Falcon Northwest and VoodooPC: the FX530XT gives you 80-90 percent of the performance, for barely half the price. Vista 3D performance is a work in progress, but everything else (but gaming) is a pleasure on the Vista-powered FX530XT. It may be a little early to pass final judgment on the Gateway FX530XT. It's a reasonably priced multimedia and Media Center performance PC, but for now Vista graphics drivers hold the system back from being the be-all/end-all 3D gaming bargain its predecessor was. Once ATI optimizes its Catalyst drivers (probably in the next couple of weeks or so) for Vista, the system should perform a lot better. High-end PCs usually take a couple of weeks to build, so if you have your heart set on ordering this performance "bargain" now, just make sure to update your graphics drivers when you setup your new PC for best performance. Benchmark Test Results Check out the Gateway FX530T (Vista)'s test scores. See how the <p>Gateway FX530XT (Vista)</> measures up to similar systems in our comparison chart. More Desktop Reviews: