Perhaps you've been tempted to place a multimedia PC in the living room but worried that it wouldn't integrate well electronically—or aesthetically—with your existing audiovideo equipment. Well, your wait is over. With the <p>HP Digital Entertainment Center z545</>, Hewlett-Packard has created a nearly perfect Media Center Edition PC that doesn't just integrate with, but in fact replaces, most components in your AV rack. HP is first among the majors with a living room–friendly MCE model (meaning small, horizontal, and quiet). HP sets the standard high, which is why the z545 joins its sibling tower version, the HP Media Center Photosmart m1050y, as an Editors' Choice. And while there are a few things we'd like to see on the z545, most involve technology not available from anyone until later in 2005. To justify the $2,000 cost (both to yourself and to your spouse), it's best to think of the z545 as a 480-line progressive scan DVD player, multihundred disc CD changer in the form of a hard disk jukebox, dual-tuner DVR with free program guides (take that, TiVo), digital photo player, Web browser, and, oh yes, a moderately high-end personal computer with ultra-quiet cooling fans and a wireless keyboard. All in a box smaller than your current AV receiver. You can record as many as two TV programs at once while watching a third (recorded) video and at the same time you're sending video, photos, or music to other rooms using a Media Center Extender or other digital media hub. With that laundry list, $2,000 doesn't seem unreasonable at all. (And if that's still too rich for your blood, HP offers the z540 for $1,399 direct, which foregoes the second TV tuner and other niceties.) The black, brushed-aluminum case measures 4.4 by 17.0 by 16.6 inches (HWD) and bristles with drop-down front doors that hide front-panel inputs and make the z545 more chic than geek. One door conceals the double-layer DVD+/-RW drive (ideal for permanently archiving photos and video captured to the unit's 200GB primary hard drive). A second door hides AV inputs and a FireWire port; a third reveals memory card slots (every kind imaginable) and two USB ports; and the last flips down to give access to HP's slick 160GB removable hard drive cartridge (one included, extras $199 apiece). Everything is clearly labeled with easily legible white lettering (words, not icons!). A two-line display tells you what music or video is playing, and there are also media transport buttons (play, pause, reverse, forward). The back of the case looks as much like a stereo receiver as a PC, bristling with well-labeled connectors, enough to output anything up to and including seven channels (plus subwoofer) of analog or digital audio and video using any video or TV connector common in North America (component, composite, DVI, S-Video, VGA), plus two infrared flashers to control a TV or amplifier. For incoming entertainment, there are connectors for two broadcast, cable, or satellite signals; FM radio; and two connectors for legacy analog-signal equipment such as a VCR, DVD player, or cassette deck (in addition to the one on front). Plus there are PC connectors: four USB, one six-pin FireWire, gigabit Ethernet, and an antenna jack for the integrated 802.11g wireless. In plain English, if you want to import digital photos, archive old VHS videotapes onto DVD, keep your 200-disc CD changer going for another year, or connect a game console, you're in luck. About the only connector one might wish for would be digital audio-in to match the coaxial and optical digital outputs. The system unit itself isn't sealed, but if you undo the screws, there's not much tinkering you can do inside except bump up the 512MB of PC3200 DDR SDRAM to 2GB. The components are already mid- to high-end. The processor is Intel's Pentium 4 530 running at 3.0 GHz, the system chipset is Intel's 915P Express, audio is Intel's as well, graphics comes from ATI's Radeon X300 SE PCI-Express card (with 128MB of video RAM. Critics will note that you can get faster CPUs, bigger hard disks, and more historically respected names in audio subsystems, but the point of the z545 is to provide a better-than-adequate digital living room experience for mainstream users and not push the price closer to $3,000 than $2,000. This is not the ultimate system to put the hurt on an Alienware or Voodoo. What's the experience like if you do make the Digital Entertainment Center the only device in your living room other than the TV set and speakers? TV and DVR picture quality is fine. Family members who dislike juggling multiple AV devices and remotes ("let's see, I want the Panasonic remote for the DVD and then Video 2 on the Philips TV to play the movie, but why isn't sound coming out of the Kenwood stereo?") will find this easier, provided you already know how to work a Media Center Edition PC (it's not hard), you have self-powered audio speakers (otherwise you'll need to keep your old receiver or amplifier around), and you don't lose the included HP remote or wireless keyboard. While you can start a DVD or CD playing on a traditional AV system using front-panel controls, here you're going to need the 46-button remote to at least answer "OK" when the "Play Disc?" message pops up. On our unit at least, pressing the Play button didn't initiate video playback. Nor was there a volume control in front to adjust the level of audio output. But these nits are relatively minor. What else could be improved on the z545? Digital cable TV users would like to see the set-top box integrated into the PC, as it is now on a handful of TVs using an emerging standard called Cable Card. But no PC has that today; many will within the year. Microsoft is loudly pushing 802.11a wireless networking for multimedia, so an "a/g" card would give users more flexibility. One tuner should be HDTV rather than standard definition, although currently PC-resident HDTV tuners are for over-the-air broadcasts only, not cable or satellite feeds. The front panel 1/4-inch headphone jack would be more useful as a 1/8-inch jack favored by most headphones today, and it would be nice to have a mini-line-in jack in addition to the RCA jacks. That said, when concerns drop to this level of minutia—especially with such a complex machine—it's clear the core system is solid. HP also needs to offer a variant with an integrated surround-sound amplifier so you could banish that last piece of legacy hardware, the receiver/amplifier. Still, as is, the <p>HP Digital Entertainment Center z545</> makes digital convergence a desirable reality.