The <p>HP Pavilion dv7-4171us</> ($929 list) is a well-built laptop that offers a blend of features for both work and play at an affordable price. With enough horsepower for most working professionals, a roomy keyboard, widescreen display, and Blu-ray capability, the dv7-4171us, available at Staples, offers most consumers exactly what they want in a desktop replacement, a professional laptop that entertains in the off hours. Design Like the latest dv6 and dv7 models in HP's Pavilion laptop line, the dv7-4171us has a brushed aluminum body sporting laser-etched embellishments across the lid and palm rest. The brushed aluminum case offers a sleek look and sturdier protection than the plastic used in previous models. Oddly enough, I found the embellishments provided a bit more traction on the palm rest than smoother surfaced options, an unanticipated benefit of the subtle texturing. The keyboard has square keys, isolated and raised just enough to mimic the typing experience of a desktop. The widescreen form factor provides enough room for a full numeric pad, which uses the same square chiclet-style keys. Nestled just below the keyboard, the touchpad and the right and left mouse buttons combined into one surface, similar to the touchpad found on the MacBook Pro ($1,199 direct, 4). On past Pavilion models, such as the dv6-3040us and the dv7-4053cl, we had problems with the multitouch trackpad. While the sensitivity of previous models seems to have been fixed on the dv7-4171us, it's swung too far in the opposite direction for me, often requiring a much firmer touch to get it to register a second finger. This quirk effectively removed any convenience offered by gesture controls. The integrated right and left buttons also seemed stiff, further interrupting a process that should be smooth and intuitive. Tying the whole package together is the screen, a wide 17.3-inch affair that looks great at nearly any angle. The battery protrudes out from the chassis, slanting the keyboard at a comfortable angle, and making the dv7-4171us nearly an inch and a half thick at its back end. Measuring 16.35 inches wide and 10.8 inches long, and weighing in at 7 pounds, portability is limited, putting this unit squarely into the desktop replacement category. Features The Pavilion dv7-4171us offers a sizable package with plenty of great features. Topping the list is the optical drive, which combines Blu-ray playback with a DVD+/-RW burner and comes with HP's Lightscribe label printing technology. Though it doesn't offer true high definition, movies look great on the wide 1,600-by-900 (720p) resolution screen. It also sounds great, with a Beats Audio enhanced speaker system that includes an integrated subwoofer. Last but not least, the included HDMI output allows you to use the laptop as part of a home theater system. The spacious 500GB 7,200rpm hard drive offers lots of storage space and fast speeds. In addition to standard ports and outputs, such as an RJ-45 Ethernet jack, audio input and output, and VGA outputs, the dv7-4171us also offers HDMI output, 4 USB connections, including one combination USB/eSATA connection for hooking up an external hard drive. A 5-in-1 card reader lets you use most memory formats (SD, MS/Pro, MMC, and XD) without needing an adapter dongle. A built-in Webcam and mic allows for video chat, and a fingerprint scanner in the palm rest provides extra security for anyone using the HP as a business computer. My only other nit is the choice to put a recessed eject button onto the Blu-ray drive. It's set into the edge of the drive tray just enough that it takes a fingernail rather than a finger tip to open it. It's not a major problem, but in any laptop under $1000 Blu-ray becomes a major selling point, making this a puzzling and irritating design choice. Buyers picking up the dv7-4171us through Staples can also benefit from extended warranties that cover screen replacement and protection from accident and spill damage not normally covered by HP's one year warranty, and plans include 24/7 phone access to technical support. Staple's protection plans run between $99-$359, and can extend protection for up to 3 years, depending on the plan purchased. Performance The dv7-4171us utilizes an AMD Phenom II N850 triple-core processor, which offers processing speeds similar to Intel's i3 used in this season's <p>Acer Aspire AS5745-7247</>, and better battery life than the quad-core Intel Core i5 chips used by the Editors' Choice <p>HP Pavilion dv7-4083cl</> ($999 list, 4 stars). In the PCMark Vantage productivity test, the dv7-4171us scored 4,932; a decent score, but lower than the dv7-4083cl, which scored 5,677. While this difference will be significant to high-end users, most won't see a difference in their day to day use. The AMD M880G integrated graphics chipset, one of AMD's Vision Ultimate line, is paired with ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4250 Graphics software to offer a solid experience for mainstream imaging and video needs. Scoring a HandBrake time of 3 minutes 27 seconds and Photoshop CS5 time of 8:18, the dv7-4171us offers decent performance for the photo and video enthusiast who does only occasional editing, but serious users will be frustrated by slower processing and longer encoding times. The dv7-4171us huffed and puffed through our Lost Planet 2 test to score 18.5 frames per second at medium quality, and only 6.9 fps at native resolution. All the more disappointing, it wouldn't run Crysis at all. If you need gaming performance from your desktop replacement, this summer's dv7-4071nr ($1,029.98 list, 4 stars) packs more gaming punch in an otherwise similar machine. Battery life is where this laptop excels. The 9-cell battery boasts an impressive 93WH, which translates into longer life and more use on the go. On MobileMark 2007, it lasted 5 hours 36 minutes, easily besting most other desktop replacements reviewed recently. While the size and weight of the laptop may keep it deskbound most of the time, the battery life gives users the option of cutting the cord for the better part of a work day. As a machine for work and home, the <p>HP Pavilion dv7-4171us</> is a solid performer, providing strong functionality for an affordable price. The combination of decent processing power, entertainment options and battery life make this a surprisingly versatile desktop replacement. Though gaming and video enthusiasts might prefer the better processor and imaging of our Editor's Choice, the <p>HP Pavilion dv7-4083cl</>, the dv7-4171us should hit the sweet spot of functionality and affordability that mainstream consumers are after.