The <p>HP ProBook 5310m</> ($899 direct) is evidence that small businesses are ready to embrace modern times. Conservative IT managers, particularly in large enterprises, have yet to realize how easy it is to stifle innovation by demanding so many hardware functions. Sometimes, less means more. The 5310m sheds the optical drive and VGA port, which I consider playing-it-safe parts that would have otherwise made the design thick and conservative-looking. The result is a luxuriously thin ultraportable, without the sticker shock. And it's quite the performer, too. That's why it earns our Editors' Choice in the small business category. Design The 5310m's design is strikingly similar to that of the <p>HP Mini 5101</>혰a netbook혰except its footprint is significantly larger. This is not a netbook, however, even though the 5310m inherits many of the basic elements of the 5101, like portability and thinness. Brushed aluminum metals give the 5310m a striking, modern look. Yet, the entire black frame, made up of magnesium and aluminum metals, isn't flamboyant like a pink version of the <p>Dell Latitude E4300</>. Because it omits an optical drive, the 5310m is luxuriously thin, measuring 13 by 8.7 by 0.8 inches (HWD). Meanwhile, its 3.6 pound chassis isn't that much heavier than a netbook. Overall, the design is forward-thinking and well thought out. The 13.1-inch widescreen is neither too big for an airplane tray table nor so small that you'll need to don a pair of reading glasses. As I've always said, it's the perfect screen size for maximizing productivity. It's a generic screen, though, so don't expect fancy resolutions like the 1,440-by-900 one found in the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X301</> or an intensely bright screen like the one found in the <p>Getac 9213</>; a 1,366-by-768 resolution and average brightness are consistent with most small business laptop screens. The typing and navigating experience on the 5310m easily rivals that of the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X301</>. The full size keyboard is another example of modernization, as all the keys are isolated from each other, adopting a look similar to keyboards found in consumer models like the <p>HP Envy 13</> and <p>Apple MacBook (Unibody)</>. The palm rests are made out of the same brushed aluminum metals found on the lid, while the mouse buttons are engineered to perfection: They are as quiet and as easy to press as those found in the Lenovo X301. Features The 5310m's feature set represents the classic fork in the road: HP could have either stuck with previous-generation parts, with their design limitations, or it could move forward and reap the rewards of innovation. Obviously, it chose the latter. In this small business laptop, you won't find an internal optical drive, even though large enterprises would consider that a sin. But ask yourself: When was the last time you used one? If it's not once every week, then you're probably ready to move on. This also lacks a VGA port, which can still be found in old projectors, as well as CRT monitors and many flat panels. If this is how you present slideshows in boardroom meetings, then this laptop is not for you. The 5310m adopts the more current video-out port called DisplayPort, which streams in digital bits and drive insanely high resolutions. That's where much of the leap-of-faith taking stops, though. You still get three USB ports, Gigabit Ethernet, and various wireless options, including 802.11n Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and options for mobile broadband. For those who carry around digital cameras for their work, like insurance agents, they'll find an SD and MMC slot, which covers most card formats. Like the HP 5101 netbook, this small business laptop runs on a speedy (7,200rpm) hard drive, with a capacity of 250GB. As is typical with most laptops today, a 2 Megapixel webcam resides above the screen. HP includes other handy software features such as quick boot-up interfaces혰ones that are based on a Linux platform. HP's Quickweb gets you into a Web browser, with access to any one of your wireless connections, in mere seconds. Meanwhile, HP's Quicklook allows you to sync with Microsoft's Outlook Only. Sorry folks, Quicklook doesn't support POP mail accounts or Microsoft Exchange server settings. It allows you to view and edit (with limitations) e-mails and update or sync with your Windows-based Outlook client. That's it. But they're nifty features nonetheless. Performance You don't have to sacrifice performance either to get to the desired thickness. The 5310m runs on a standard voltage processor. It's not a netbook CPU or an Ultra Low Voltage processor, both of which sacrifice plenty of performance in favor of battery life. The 2.26-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo SP9300 processor is a terrific pick because it emphasizes both speed and energy efficiency. Though 2GB of memory seems meager in these modern times, the 5310m still achieved impressive performance scores. Its video encoding and Cinbench R10 scores easily beat out the Lenovo X301, <p>HP ProBook 4310s</>, and <p>Getac 9213</>. It runs on Intel's integrated graphics, though, so don't expect to rack up those 3D gaming frame rates on your free time. A 41WH (4-cell) battery and a standard voltage processor usually spell trouble for battery life, but not so for the 5310m. In MobileMark 2007 tests, its score of 5 hours 18 minutes places it in the same league as the Lenovo X301 (5:24) and <p>Getac 9213</> (4:50)혰both of which have bigger batteries. Imagine what the 5310m can do with an extended battery. By early next year, an 8-cell battery option will available and potentially take battery life well beyond its 5-hour mark. As if all this wasn't enough, the 5310m collects all the environmentally friendly certifications, including EPEAT Gold, Energy Star 5.0, and RoHS. Because it's a laptop meant for the business market, HP has an excellent recycling program in place once the 5310m reaches the end of its life cycle. (Businesses are more likely to care about recycling programs than your average consumer, because end of life usually means multiple systems at a time.) It cemented its GreenTech Approved status by scoring 12watts in idle mode (as measured with a P3 International Kill-A-Watt meter on PC Labs's energy tests). The <p>HP ProBook 5310m</> is not suited for environments with old equipment and conservative attitudes. Instead, it's for business professionals who are always thinking and moving forward. Features like an optical drive and VGA-Out aren't part of this business package, but what you get in return is a modernized design, a fantastic user experience, and parts that will age like Dorian Gray.