the hp pavilion line has been well received since the birth of its unique imprinted designs and piano-black finishes. hp has introduced 14-inch, 15.4-inch, and 17-inch pavilion models, covering a gamut of screen options. but two models are still noticeably absent from the pavilion family: a 12-inch ultraportable and a convertible tablet. with its 12-inch screen and tablet capabilities, the <p>hp pavilion tx1000</> ($1,720 direct) works to fill in both blanks with one product. the tx1000 is also one of the first systems to roll out with windows vista home premium, microsoft's next-generation operating system. but despite all the exciting new features and potential success, hp may have jumped the gun by not delivering a good tablet pc experience. think of the tx1000 as the 12-inch version of the <p>hp pavilion dv2000z</>. at first glance, there's plenty to like about this convertible tablet. the 12-inch widescreen is brightview enhanced, giving it a glossy look. the widescreen also lets hp put in a full-size keyboard, and it's a comfortable one at that. though the 4.9-pound frame is a little heavier than that of competing tablets (due to a heavier battery), it's still tolerable when laid across your lap or braced across your forearm. love or hate the imprints or smudge-prone piano finish, you still have to hand it to hp for taking a chance on a completely new design, unlike the long-in-the-tooth ones found on the dell inspiron and toshiba satellite models. i really liked the touchpad. unique to the tx1000, it's slightly perforated, giving it a more tactile feel. there are, however, several design aspects that could use some improvement. the mouse buttons, for instance, produced some resistance upon clicking. the screen is a little thicker and heavier than that of the <p>lenovo thinkpad x60 tablet</>, so it seems wobbly. the screen doesn't lie completely flat against the keyboard, so you see gaps around the edges, and this makes the system appear thicker than it really is. the pen has a nice comfortable feel to it, with the rubbery middle giving it a firm grip, but it's not digitized! (i'll get to more on that in a bit.) the tx1000 launches with windows vista home premium, which has the tablet edition of the os built in. you can also get tablet functionality loading vista ultimate, business, or enterprise. i should mention that the release build is 5808. given that the current version is build 6000 (rtm) and that the official launch is slated for end of this month, i'm not going to blame hp entirely for the tablet's shortcomings. but the os did not recognize many of my pen strokes. one of the big reasons is that hp elected to go with a touch screen instead of a digitized screen from wacom. users often have a tendency to lay the palm of their hand against the screen when they write, thereby causing touch-screen functions to interfere with their pen strokes. this is a major problem: during testing, the system often didn't recognize the last stroke of my letters. the glass on the screen seems a little thicker, too, so you don't get that pen-on-paper feel when you write. overall, the writing experience did not meet my expectations. by contrast, the wacom-enabled x60 tablet and the <p>fujitsu lifebook t4210</>, both of which i upgraded to vista build 6000, offer impressive accuracy in handwriting recognition. you can feast on the boatload of features available to the tx1000. those running along the edge of the screen alone are praiseworthy. for starters, this is the only convertible tablet that possesses an integrated camera, in this case a 1.3-megapixel webcam for use with skype and video chatting. the dvd and quickplay buttons have been moved to the edge of the screen, too, so now you can launch dvds, play your mp3s, and scan through your photos without converting back to laptop mode or even booting into windows. a set of dvd playback controls on the other side of the lid makes life even easier. the fingerprint reader sits on the other side of the screen, eliminating the need to type in passwords to log into windows or password-enabled web sites. the 802.11n wireless promises realistic throughput speeds of approximately 130 mbps. and to top it off, there's a cellular modem hidden under the screen. you can choose a carrier depending on a particular network's connection strength in your area. cellular broadband wireless will not be immediately available, but my system was configured with verizon's ev-do nonetheless. the tx1000 joins the <p>toshiba portégé m400-s4032</> and the fujitsu t4210 as one of the few 12-inch convertible tablets to load built-in optical drives. it offers an integrated dvd-burning optical drive with lightscribe—hp's patented etching technology, which eliminates disc labels and printer ink. the system comes with three usb ports, but since the tx1000 is such a media stud, i was surprised that it didn't include a firewire port. a little remote, hidden away in a slot on the left side of the laptop, works wonderfully well with hp's quickplay, as well as with microsoft's media center edition, which is also bundled into vista home premium. on the front bezel, you can find two headphone ports, so you and a friend need not split a pair of earbuds. if you need to hook up a more powerful set of speakers, one of the headphone ports doubles as an s/pdif (audio-out) port. hp continues to show its undying support for amd processors. the tx1000 launches with a 1.6-ghz amd turion 64 x2 tl-52 that does the job, but is average at best. i anticipate an intel core 2 duo offering, as on the rest of the pavilion line, in the future. hp does load 2gb of ram to provide enough memory for full vista functionality, including a smooth transition to the aero interface. the system also uses a low-end nvidia geforce go 6150 graphics card, which shares up to 335mb of video memory with system memory. the extra video memory will let vista's 3d capabilities reach full bloom. the tx1000 comes with an extended 55-wh battery, but the battery design is not compatible across the pavilion line. since this is a tablet pc with vista loaded, the sysmark tests are currently not compatible with it. i did run down the battery by performing day-to-day tasks, including watching a dvd movie and web surfing. i managed to squeeze 4 hours 30 minutes out of the extended battery, which is very good for a tablet. hp's total care package gives you a comprehensive warranty, including one year on parts and labor, round-the-clock technical phone support (1-800-hp-invent), e-mail and computer remote assistance, and a library full of online solutions. hp also offers extended warranty programs, such as a two-year extension ($140) or a one-year accidental plan ($99), where you're covered even if you drop your laptop into a river. i'm actually very optimistic about the <p>hp pavilion tx1000</>'s future. granted, hp needs to re-establish an alliance with wacom to improve handwriting recognition. the tablet capabilities fell short of my expectations, and the design could use several enhancements. but the potential is limitless when you consider the plentiful features meshed into a solid pavilion laptop. it's like any other early-adopter unit—there will be a round two. don't miss our side-by-side tablet comparison chart. Browse our ongoing CES 2007 Photo Blog!