Building on the success of its TouchSmart IQ816, an all-in-one desktop with a massive touch screen, HP decided to make a mobile version. Since the <p>HP Pavilion tx2000z</> already had touch and tablet features built in, it was the obvious candidate to inherit the IQ816's intuitive interface. The <p>HP TouchSmart TX2z</> takes its touch capabilities further. It's the first Windows-based multitouch (responsive to specific gestures made with more than one finger) tablet, trumping the IQ816's single-touch functions. Being the first to market, however, does not guarantee success. Its fan noise is almost unbearable, the multitouch functions are buggy, and a bloated software suite is crippling. HP didn't do anything revolutionary to the hardware, which implies that it's still testing the tablet waters. The TX2z is basically a multitouch version of the tx2000z. In fact, you can't tell the two apart by design alone. The embedded patterns underneath a glossy finish look very similar to those on other Pavilion laptops. At 4.9 pounds, the TX2z is bulkier and heavier than the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X200 Tablet</> (4 pounds) and the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook T5010</> (4.8 pounds) and lacks their fit and finish. In testing, the mouse buttons were difficult to press and hard to use for tasks other than plain clicking, such as dragging files and cropping images. The ones on the Lenovo Tablet are perfectly calibrated, offering little to no resistance. You'll like the TX2z's keyboard, though, as it is full-size and very comfortable to type on. The 12-inch widescreen is very similar to that of the tx2000z. It has a capacitive touch layer that's responsive to your fingers and a Wacom digitized layer that works only with a digitized pen (one is bundled with the unit). The multitouch capabilities are enabled by a driver, developed by a company called Ntrig, which translates your finger gestures into signals your computer can understand. The touch capabilities are also optimized through HP's MediaSmart software, which is similar to the suite found on the IQ816. It's worth noting that the IQ816 is technically a multitouch display, albeit a primitive one without a driver update: You can zoom in and out of a photo with two fingers, but that's about it. You can launch the TX2z's MediaSmart suite by tracing the letter M on the screen. You need to use two fingers for this—after all, this is a multitouch panel. It took me several tries to bring up the suite. The environment looks like a condensed version of the IQ816's. There are several tabs, including ones for photos, videos, music, and Internet TV. The photo module lets you flip through photos by swiping a finger. Pinching and enlarging with two fingers is similar to the gesture recognized by Apple MacBooks, and it worked pretty well. Rotating a photo is a bit more challenging: You have to keep one finger stationary and rotate with the other, almost like a compass. Half the time the tablet was unresponsive to the rotating gesture, and I found it easier to use both hands. There weren't any notable multitouch gestures for the other tabs. Outside of the MediaSmart environment, zooming in and out of pages in Internet Explorer 7 worked well. The same was true of Microsoft Office Excel and Word documents. HP says that multitouch gestures work with a wide range of third-party applications, although it doesn't specify which ones. Its multitouch doesn't support three- or four-finger gestures like the MacBooks, so its multitouch is really maxed out at two fingers—for now. Overall, the gestures could use a little refinement, and they're definitely not as fluid as some of the Apple ones. Different gestures can be added and improved upon with an updated driver, so look for HP to build on this. The TX2z's feature set is the same as that of the tx2000z. It has a built-in dual-layer DVD burner. There are several hard-drive options: My review unit uses a 400GB Toshiba spinning hard drive, but you can downgrade to a 160GB version or upgrade (for an additional $130) to a 500GB one. The tablet has three USB ports, an ExpressCard slot, and a multimedia card reader. You won't find a FireWire port, an HDMI port, or internal mobile broadband on it. HP is notorious for cluttering up your laptop with all types of junk software, from third-party applications to its own brand of utilities. The Lenovo X200 Tablet isn't far behind with its extensive list of proprietary applications, but at least it minimizes the adverse effects on the user experience. The fan noise was obnoxious—the fans were constantly running. It uses the fastest AMD processor available—the 2.4-GHz Turion X2 Ultra ZM-86—which causes it more harm than good. Even with the fans running at full strength, heat coming from the base (94–99 degrees Fahrenheit, as measured with a Fluke thermometer) could not be tamed. A lower-clocked processor, perhaps the ZM-80 or a ZM-82, might reduce fan noises, but this is purely speculation. This configuration was loaded with 4GB of memory, which helped offset some of the processor's weaknesses. Even then, the TX2z's scores on overall performance tests were unimpressive compared with those of tablets with budget and low-powered processors from Intel. It did about the same on CineBench as the Lenovo X200 Tablet, which runs on a 1.86-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo L9400 low-voltage processor, and on video-encoding tests it trailed the Lenovo X200 by 8 percent. For graphics, the TX2z uses the ATI Radeon HD 3200, an integrated chipset that should be limited to very light 3D workloads. Its 71-Wh extended battery is bigger than the Lenovo X200's 66-Wh one, but it couldn't contend with the latter's more energy-efficient processor. While performing admirably on the MobileMark 2007 battery test, the TX2z's 4 hour 20 minute score is over an hour shy of Lenovo's 5:29. Multitouch will be the buzzword for tablets this year. Apple is already leading the way with its multitouch touchpad laptops, and I expect an army of Windows-based models to follow once Windows 7 launches. Though it could use some fine-tuning, the <p>HP TouchSmart TX2z</> has several multitouch gestures that work with a variety of applications. Everything else, however, could use an overhaul. Between the fan noise, a heavy chassis, a bloated software suite, and the sweltering processor, it's hard to recommend this as your primary laptop, let alone for use as a tablet. You'll be a lot happier with the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X200 Tablet</> or the Fujitsu LifeBook T5000 series. Check out the <p>HP TouchSmart TX2z</>'s performance test results.