The <p>Lenovo ThinkPad 10 Tablet</> ($729 as tested) is a compact 10-inch business slate tablet designed to fulfill the needs of users who want both a tablet and a Windows 8.1 Pro laptop. It's powered by a quad-core Intel Atom processor and has a full HD screen, but is otherwise basic, with just 2GB of memory and a 64GB solid-state drive (SSD) for storage. Unfortunately, its steep price tag and the fact that the keyboard dock is an add-on accessory hold it back. Design and Features The ThinkPad 10 Tablet has a black-painted, aluminum chassis that measures about 0.35 by 10 by 7 inches (HWD). It weighs a scant 1.27 pounds, which is lighter than our Editors' Choice for entry-level business tablets, the Intel Atom-equipped <p>Dell Venue 11 Pro</> (1.65 pounds). The 10.6-inch screen has a 1,920-by-1,200 resolution. Viewing Netflix movies on the full HD display was a joy during testing, and the higher resolution means that you will be able to see more info on a website or a spreadsheet, compared with the cramped space on a tablet or laptop with a 1,366-by-768-resolution screen. Accelerometers in the tablet ensure the display is oriented correctly to how you are holding the tablet (either in Portrait or Landscape mode). I/O ports include a USB 2.0 port under a door on the left side, while a microSD card slot is hidden under another door on the right along with the a micro SIM slot for WWAN-equipped tablets. The micro HDMI port is exposed along with the headset jack. One major nit is that the tablet uses a proprietary AC adapter to charge, while the Asus T100TA and <p>Dell Venue 11 Pro</> both charge using a standard micro USB cable. That means that you'll have to carry two chargers along if you're travelling with a smartphone and the ThinkPad 10. The system comes integrates dual-band 802.11 a/b/g/n Wi-Fi. The tablet comes with an 8-megapixel rear-facing camera and 2-megapixel front-facing camera. The camera app loads quickly with only a bit of shutter lag for the first shot using the rear-facing camera on the tablet. Subsequent shots are quick and happen in rapid succession. Low-light pictures were good, though the camera lacks a flash. The front-facing camera works fine for quick videoconferences. Two gigabytes of memory is enough to support Windows 8.1, but it's a bit cramped if you have dozens of open Web browser tabs, along with emails, Office apps, and other programs like a database app or Photoshop running. Installed apps, the recovery partition, and Windows 8.1 occupy a lot of space on the 64GB SSD. As a result, there's only has 31.2GB free at setup. That's not much headroom for media files or programs, but you can pop in a 64GB microSD card for more storage. Preloaded apps include Accuweather, Evernote Hightail, Kindle, Rara Music, Red Karaoke, Touch, and Zinio, so you can recover a few megabytes here and there by uninstalling apps. An otherwise identically configured ThinkPad 10 Tablet is available for $599 with Windows 8.1 instead of the Windows 8.1 Pro that came with our review unit. Both configurations come with a digitizer pen, which helps accuracy when checking off tiny check boxes on Web forms or writing signatures on the screen. Accessories One of the ThinkPad 10's strengths is Lenovo's matching optional accessory line. The company sent along a Quickshot cover ($45), a ThinkPad Tablet Dock ($130), and a ThinkPad 10 Ultrabook Keyboard ($120) with our review unit. None of these accessories are included in the system's base price, however. The Quickshot cover works like the one on the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad 8</>, covering the screen and unlocking the tablet via a set of embedded magnets. The cover also automatically puts the tablet in Camera mode if you flip the corner down to expose the rear camera. It also has a built-in elastic fabric loop to hold the digitizer pen (included with the tablet). The elastic is much more robust and sturdier than the tight ribbon loop on the Surface cover for the <p>Microsoft Surface Pro 3</>. We would categorize the ThinkPad 10's (oddly named) Ultrabook Keyboard as a must-buy option. Despite its name, using it doesn't grant the tablet ultrabook status. It's simply an add-on mechanical keyboard with a comfortable typing experience on longer documents. Like the Surface Type Cover, the Ultrabook Keyboard uses magnets to securely connect and pass signals from the keys to the tablet. It lacks a supplementary battery, but it has a small clickpad and a handy storage slot for the digitizer pen. The magnets are strong enough to keep the dock connected if you pick up the tablet by the screen, but it isn't positively locked on with a latch like on the Asus Transformer Book T100TA or <p>Dell Venue 11 Pro</> tablets. This is where it becomes a little quirky, because the Surface Pro, the Transformer Book, and the Venue 11 Pro all close like laptops when the keyboard is attached, but the ThinkPad 10 tablet portion physically detaches and you'll have to consciously and deftly guide the slate into a slot to close the cover. The dock has channels molded into its body for only two positions: closed and open, with no tilt adjustment. That said, the Ultrabook Keyboard is still a more stable platform for typing on your lap than the flappy Surface Type Cover. Portability remains intact, as the keyboard and tablet together weigh only 2.4 pounds. Performance In addition to the 2GB of memory and the 64GB SSD, the system is outfitted with an Intel Atom Z3795 processor with integrated Intel HD Graphics. In our tests, the tablet's PCMark 8 Work Conventional score was an adequate 1,517 points, but it's much lower than the 2,704 points he <p>Microsoft Surface Pro 3</> managed with its ultrabook-class Core i5 processor. The ThinkPad 10 Tablet finished the Handbrake test in a leisurely 10 minutes 3 seconds. The tablet couldn't finish our Adobe Photoshop CS6 test, as it requires more than 2GB memory to complete successfully. These results indicate that the ThinkPad 10 is fine for simple office tasks, but you'd want a more powerful tablet or laptop for multimedia creation and 3D gaming. Battery life is excellent. The system finished our battery rundown test in 12 hours 8 minutes. That's one of the longest sessions we've seen on a tablet without a supplemental battery. In comparison, the <p>Dell Venue 11 Pro</> lasted 9:01 alone, but improved to 18 hours when connected to a keyboard dock with a fully charged second battery. The ThinkPad 10 is a good choice if you need an all-day companion for accessing email, looking up info, and connecting to IT assets like servers on your company's Wi-Fi network. The battery is sealed into the chassis, however, so it can't be swapped out for a fully charged one or replaced easily when you're refurbishing the tablet for a new user. The <p>Lenovo ThinkPad 10 Tablet</> is a very good choice for the business user who needs a Windows 8 system that's a tablet most of the time and a laptop part of the time. Long battery life, a light chassis, and a full HD screen work in its favor. The <p>Dell Venue 11 Pro</> has a stronger physical connection to its optional keyboard dock, a swappable battery, more versatile micro USB charging, and less expensive base price. Even if you add the optional keyboard to both tablets and account for the additional fee for Windows 8.1 Pro, <p>Dell Venue 11 Pro</>, at $773.99, is still a better buy than the ThinkPad 10 Tablet at $848.99, and thus remains our Editors' Choice for entry-level business tablets.