The <p>Lenovo Yoga Tab 3 Pro</> ($499.99; 32GB) is similar to the 8-inch Yoga Tab 3 8 in name only. The 10.1-inch Pro has a larger, sharper screen, a more premium design, a faster processor, and a built-in projector. Lenovo calls it "the ultimate video tablet," and that's not far from the mark. The rear kickstand is great for watching Netflix and YouTube on the tablet's sharp display, and the projector makes it easy to share that content with a crowd. You'll pay a premium for these features, similar to what you will for other high-end tablets like the <p>Apple iPad Air 2</> and the <p>Samsung Galaxy Tab S2 9.7</>. All three have their strengths, and if your focus is video watching, the <p>Lenovo Yoga Tab 3 Pro</> is worth considering. Design and Features The Yoga Tab 3 Pro looks similar to the non-Pro model, complete with a unique cylindrical design on one end, but bigger. It measures 9.72 by 7.05 by 0.18 inches (HWD) at its thinnest point, and weighs 1.47 pounds. It's pretty hefty, with most of the weight concentrated in the cylinder, which is home to the Power button on one end and a Projector button on the other. By contrast, the Galaxy Tab S2 measures 9.34 by 6.65 by 0.22 inches (HWD) and weighs in at about 13.7 ounces, so it's lighter. The tablet's back panel is wrapped in a faux-leather material that looks and feels premium. View All 9 Photos in Gallery The projector itself is situated right in the middle of the cylinder, and when you flip out the kickstand from the back of the tablet, you can project whatever's on the tablet's screen onto a nearby screen or wall. When projecting, you can rotate your finger clockwise or counterclockwise on the tablet's screen to focus the image. Under the kickstand is a removable flap that hides a microSD slot. It's fairly difficult to manipulate—I had to use a pen to pry it open. The 10.1-inch screen is a very sharp, bright 2,560-by-1,600 IPS panel with 299 pixels per inch. That makes it even sharper than the 9.7-inch, 2,048-by-1,536 Galaxy Tab S2 (294 ppi), though the Tab S2's Super AMOLED screen is a lot more saturated. Both are great for watching video. Directly beneath the display is the speaker grille. There are Volume buttons and a micro USB port on the left edge of the tablet, and nothing on the right. The Pro runs a lightly skinned version of Lollipop 5.1, which looks and acts a lot like stock Android, but features a few visual differences, including new icons. You get 22GB of internal storage out of the box; the remaining 10GB are taken up by the operating system and bloatware. There are a number of uninstallable apps like Lenovo eFrame (a photo gallery app) and SYNCit HD (which backs the tablet up to the cloud or an SD card), which don't offer anything you can't get from Google Play. PerformanceThe tablet is powered by a quad-core Intel Atom x5-Z8500 processor that clocks in at 2.24GHz, and its performance is in line with other high-end tablets. The tablet scored a solid 45,873 on the AnTuTu benchmark, comparable with the Samsung Exynos-powered Galaxy Tab S2 (46,918). You won't have any trouble switching between apps or playing graphics-intensive games, though the Tab S2 has an edge in multitasking, thanks to the Samsung tablet's ability to open up six separate windows at once on the tablet's 9.7-inch display. But the main reason you're here is for the video, and the Tab 3 Pro provides a great experience. The pull-out kickstand is sturdy and offers 360 degrees of motion, so you're not limited to just one or two viewing positions. And the built-in speaker is surprisingly solid. It's actually a row of four front-facing speakers, so the sound projects right out from under whatever you're watching. It's not going to compete with even an inexepensive plug-in or Bluetooth option speaker, but it packs a decent amount of power and doesn't sound tinny, so it will work just fine for private viewing sessions. The built-in pico projector works seamlessly. Once you turn it on and aim it at the wall, it delivers a bright (50 lumens), live feed up to 70 inches at 480p resolution. Image quality can't compete with a dedicated projector, but the ability to quickly focus the image via the tablet screen makes it easy to get a sharp, clear picture. After turning the projector on, I was watching a perfectly focused YouTube video in just a minute. This makes the tablet an appealing option for sharing video with friends whether you already have a projector screen, or simply a large blank wall. And since you can project whatever is on the tablet's screen, it can also be used for presentations. The cameras are another high point. The rear-facing, 13-megapixel camera takes clear, detailed shots, with colors that look true-to-life. It's surprisingly good for a tablet. And the front-facing 5MP shooter is more than up to the task for selfies and video calls. Battery life is also quite good. The Pro's 10,200mAh battery lasted a solid 7 hours and 20 minutes in our rundown test, which streams video over Wi-Fi at full brightness. The Galaxy Tab S2 lasted 5 hours and 11 minutes. Of course, using the projector is going to suck down battery a lot faster than simply browsing the Web, so the solid result here is reassuring to see. Conclusions The <p>Lenovo Yoga Tab 3 Pro</> may very well indeed be the ultimate video tablet, but it comes at a premium price. That said, dedicated projectors can go for hundreds (or even thousands) of dollars, so the built-in projector here adds value. Other top tablets, like the <p>Apple iPad Air 2</> and the Samsung Galaxy Tab S2, don't include a projector, and sell for a similar price to the Tab 3 Pro. So, if you're looking for a tablet that can project your favorite movies and YouTube videos, and you're willing to shell out $500, the Tab 3 Pro is a solid choice. If video isn't your primary concern, however, you might be able to get more use out the Samsung Galaxy Tab S2, thanks its superior multitasking abilities. If it's apps you're after, there's still no better large-screen tablet than our Editors' Choice, the <p>Apple iPad Air 2</>. And if you're looking to save some money, the 8-inch Asus Zen Pad S offers a lot of bang for your buck.