Last year, Lenovo brought the Yoga multimode design to business laptops with the 12-inch ThinkPad Yoga. Since then, the line has expanded to include a 14-inch model, and what was once just the ThinkPad Yoga is now the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga 12</> ($1,592.10 as tested). While the basic look and design of the system are pretty much the same, the new Yoga 12 is a pretty significant improvement over last year's model, thanks to small design refinements and updated hardware. With improved, category-leading performance and a solid convertible design, the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga 12</> is an easy pick as our top pick for convertible-hybrid ultraportable for business. Design As with the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga</> and the ThinkPad Yoga 14 before it, the ThinkPad Yoga 12 blends the company's usual business laptop designs with the multimode flexibility of a convertible device. Dual-axle hinges let you use the system like a laptop, a tablet, or in between, with four modes: Laptop, Stand, Tent, and Tablet. The construction is beefier than Lenovo's consumer-grade Yoga models, too. The hinges are zinc-alloy, for surviving repetitive open-and-shut motions, while the chassis is magnesium-alloy, with Gorilla Glass covering the display. That business-grade durability means it will survive your daily commute, lunch meetings on the go, and work travel with aplomb. Measuring just 0.74 by 12.44 by 8.7 inches (HWD), the ThinkPad Yoga 12 weighs 3.48 pounds, which is only slightly heavier than the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Touch </>(3.02 pounds). There are even lighter options, like the featherweight <p>Lenovo LaVie Z HZ550</> (1.87 pounds), but that's a different beast altogether. The 12.6-inch display has 1,920-by-1,080 resolution, offering sharp, clear text and bright colors, with an anti-glare, matte finish that reduces reflections. The screen supports both 10-finger touch and input from the included digitizer pen. The pen is easy to keep track of, thanks to a built-in storage slot in the laptop chassis. One touch that the ThinkPad Yoga line offers that the consumer models do not is Lenovo's Lift 'n' Lock keyboard, which features a moving keyboard frame that raises up to be flush with the tops of the keys when the system is opened up into Stand or Tablet mode. The signature Lenovo red TrackPoint pointer stick sits in the center of the keyboard, and the touchpad is designed for dual-pointer use, with a clickable surface and discrete right, left, and center scroll buttons above the touchpad sensor. Features On the right of the laptop you'll find a case-lock slot, a mini HDMI-out port, a USB 3.0 port, and an SD card slot. The decision to use mini HDMI is a bit puzzling, since it never really took off as a common alternative to full-size HDMI, and to use it you'll need either a full-size-to-mini HDMI cable or an equivalent adapter dongle, neither of which come included. Also on the right are physical buttons for locking the screen rotation, volume adjustment, and system power. On the left of the laptop is a Power connector that can double as a OneLink docking connector, but it requires removing a rubber plug cover for the non-power half of the connection. There's also one USB 3.0 port, with power for charging gadgets while the laptop is asleep, and a headset jack. Internally, the Yoga 12 is equipped with dual-band 802.11ac Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0 for wireless connectivity, and Trusted Platform Module (TPM) 1.2 for added security. Storage capacity is a little light, with a 180GB solid-state drive (SSD), which is significantly smaller than the 256GB drives found in most competitors, like the <p>Dell Latitude 14 7000 Series (E7450)</> and the <p>Toshiba Portege Z20t-B2112</>. Thankfully, Lenovo doesn't go overboard with the preinstalled software. Both Microsoft Office 365 and McAfee Central Security are available as free 30-day trials. Other preloaded apps include The Weather Channel, TripAdvisor, and Dropbox Online Storage, which includes 15GB of free cloud storage. Lenovo also adds several of its own utilities and apps, like Lenovo Companion, which provides system help and support, as well as recommendations for new Windows apps, and Lenovo's REACHit and SHAREit apps, for file sharing and retrieval between other Lenovo PCs. The company covers the system with a one-year warranty. Performance The ThinkPad Yoga 12 is outfitted with an Intel Core i5-5300U, a 2.3GHz processor, paired with 8GB of RAM. This is a pretty solid selection for a business ultraportable, and is a significant step up in capability from the Intel Core M processors used in detachable-hybrid designs, like the <p>Dell Latitude 13 7000 Series 2-in-1 (7350)</> and the <p>Toshiba Portege Z20t-B2112</>. It also offers better overall performance than any of the other business ultraportables we compare it against, convertible or otherwise. In PCMark 8 Work Conventional, our general productivity test, the ThinkPad Yoga 12 scored 2,923 points, putting it ahead of the competition by a fair margin. The same was seen in Photoshop, where the ThinkPad Yoga 12 completed the test in 4 minutes 12 seconds, more than a minute ahead of the Dell E7450 (5:22) and the Toshiba Z20t-B2112 (5:16), and nearly 10 minutes faster than the previous <p>Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga</> (14:00). Relying on integrated Intel HD Graphics 5500, the ThinkPad Yoga 12 also delivered category-leading graphics performance, again topping the competition in tests like 3DMark Cloud Gate and FireStrike Extreme, where it scored 5,291 points and 340 points, respectively. In our Heaven and Valley graphics-rendering tests, the laptop once again led the way. In Heaven, at basic 1,366-by-768 resolution and medium-detail settings, the ThinkPad Yoga 12 produced 16 frames per second (fps), where most competitors hovered between 9 and 12. This may not indicate a system built for rendering 3D games or architectural designs, but for a business ultraportable, it's some of the best performance we've seen. Finally, there's the question of battery life. While it doesn't lead the pack in energy efficiency, the ThinkPad Yoga 12 does well there, too, lasting 7 hours 26 minutes in our rundown test. This puts it right in the middle of the pack with the Dell E7450 (10:12) and the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Touch </>(8:57) lasting longer on the same test. Most surprising is the battery life when compared with Core M-equipped detachable systems, like the Dell 7350, which only lasted 7:29 on its own, but bumped up to 9:51 with a secondary battery in its detachable keyboard. All in all, the ThinkPad Yoga 12 has enough juice to take you through most of the workday without ever having to worry about finding a power outlet. Conclusion The <p>Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga 12</> is an excellent update from last year's ThinkPad Yoga, offering better performance across the board, and giving business users the same sort of flexibility offered by the company's consumer-grade Yoga laptops. Compared with business-focused detachable-hybrid systems, the convertible Yoga 12 is a powerhouse, and the multimode design lets office workers use the laptop at their desks, as a tablet while going to and from meetings, and even relax with a movie on a cross-country flight. Compared with the <p>Dell Latitude 13 7000 Series 2-in-1 (7350)</>, our Editors' Choice business-focused detachable-hybrid tablet, it's an excellent alternative that offers similar 2-in-1 functionality and better performance, all for a similar price. As a standard ultraportable, the ThinkPad Yoga 12 also tops the Editors' Choice <p>Dell Latitude 14 7000 Series (E7450)</>, with better performance in productivity and graphics applications, all while offering more flexibility with its versatile design. As such, the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga 12</> earns our Editors' Choice for business-oriented convertible-hybrid ultraportables.