Lenovo is back for another crack at the ready-to-buy gaming desktop market with the Erazer X510 ($1,449.99 as tested). This funky- looking midrange gaming rig benefits from refinements over the previous <p>Lenovo Erazer X700</>, while staying firmly in the entry-level price range and offering decent (albeit not stellar) performance and expandability. It doesn't best our Editors' Choice, the <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</> in terms of overall value, but it's a safe purchase for anyone who wants to get into gaming and possibly delve into tweaking and tuning later on. Design and Features Instead of the usual boxy tower, the Erazer X510 has an angular front face, designed to evoke the visored helmet of a medieval knight. The front is done up in glossy-black plastic, but when the PC is powered on, several accents glow blue (or red or purple), depending upon your customizations. It's more Optimus Prime than Lancelot, but it's definitely distinctive. On the side of the tower are two polygonal vents, covered with plastic grilles. Blue LEDs glow inside the chassis. The X510 looks very similar to last year's Lenovo X700, but the plastic front panel has been simplified, removing the piece that overlapped with the removable side-panels and scaling back the angled hump on the top of the chassis. The result is a fairly basic PC tower, with a stylized design that doesn't interfere with maintenance or the ability to stow the system under a desk or a low cabinet. The front panel door swings open to reveal a tray-loading optical drive (DVD-RW DL), one empty 5.25-inch drive bay, and a hot-swappable hard drive slot (with included drive tray). I would prefer to see the optical drive offer Blu-ray support, since it would add more entertainment capabilities to the machine, but DVD will do the trick for anyone that hasn't completely migrated to cloud-based options like Steam. On the top of the tower, a second panel slides back to reveal a 7-in-1 memory card reader (SD/SDHC/SDXC/MMC/MMC Plus/MS/MS Pro), jacks for a headset and a microphone, and two USB ports (one USB 3.0, one USB 2.0), both of which provide power to charge devices even when the PC is shut down. On the top of the tower is a built-in handle, making it easier to schlep around the 28-pound system, and a device tray, for your phone or media player while it's plugged in and charging. Also on the top of the front panel is a large Power button and a second button to activate one-press overclocking. On the back, you'll find a Gigabit Ethernet port and six USB ports (four USB 2.0, two USB 3.0), with a DisplayPort, two DVI ports, and an HDMI-out port coming off of the GPU. The HDMI port offers full surround sound, but there is also a handful of audio jacks on the rear panel, as well as S/PDIF for digital surround sound. Look inside, and you'll find that the X510 is surprisingly well-equipped and intelligently laid out for an off-the-shelf system. It has an Intel Core i7-4770K processor (which runs at 3.5GHz, or up to 3.9GHz with overclocking), 16GB of RAM, a 1TB hard drive boosted with 8GB of solid-state storage, an Nvidia GeForce GTX 760M graphics card, and a 610-watt power supply. The processor has a cooler of its own, while two other cooling fans keep things comfortably breezy inside the case. There is room for some upgrading, with one open 5.25 ODD bay, a vacant hard drive bay, and an open PCI slot with enough room to fit a second GPU, though you may need to upgrade your power supply to support it. Additionally, you can bump up the RAM from 16GB to 32GB, since the four memory slots will support up to 8GB each, but only come with 4GB each. The desktop comes with two Lenovo-branded peripherals, a gaming keyboard and a customizable gaming mouse. The keyboard, a rebranded version of the Perixx PX-1100, has a glowing backlight that matches the blue, red, and purple of the tower, with a brightness control knob. The keys use silicon dome switches, which are a bit of letdown since most gaming equipment uses superior mechanical switches, but you can always pick up another keyboard. The accompanying mouse also has matching colored lights, and offers on-the-fly DPI switching and weight adjustment between 3.5 and 4.3 ounces. Performance With the Intel Core i7-4770K processor and 16GB of RAM—all tested in standard mode, without overclocking engaged—the Erazer X510 offers noticeably improved performance over the <p>Acer Predator AG3-605-UR39</>, which has the locked down version of the same CPU and only half the RAM. This difference is seen in PCMark 8 Work Conventional test, in which the X510 scored 5,005 points while the Acer AG3-605-UR39 scored only 3,128 points. Despite this difference, the hardware is still quite similar between the two; that's clearly seen in the identical Photoshop CS6 times of 2 minutes 54 seconds, though both fall short of the Editors' Choice <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</>, which finished in the same test in 2:48. A similar spread was seen in Handbrake, where the Erazer X510 took 1 minute 7 seconds to convert our test video, ahead of the Acer AG3-605-UR39 (1:12), but behind the <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</> (1:01). Basic performance is all well and good, but gaming is the greater concern for this category. With an Nvidia GeForce GTX 760 graphics card, the X510 scored 20,086 points in CloudGate (our moderate 3DMark test) and 5,469 points in FireStrike Extreme (the more demanding 3DMark graphics test). In actual game testing, the X510 regularly offered scores close to those of the <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</>, producing 97 frames per second (fps) in Heaven at lower resolution and detail settings, and 61fps at full 1,080p resolution and high detail. The same was seen in Valley, where the Erazer X510 cranked out 113fps at lower settings and 74fps at higher settings. This is one gaming machine that will offer smooth performance in even demanding games. Conclusion The <p>Lenovo Erazer X510</> may not offer the refined looks and extreme expandability offered by many custom boutique gaming rigs, but as a basic gaming desktop it offers a good mix of capability and some flexibility for future upgrades, with plenty of options for storage. The design is better than the previous iteration on a practical level, and those tweaks are welcomed. That said, for the most bang for your buck, the compact <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</> remains our Editors' Choice for midrange gaming rigs, thanks to a more powerful GPU and more storage.