Plenty of PC manufacturers are jumping onto the Chrome OS bandwagon, with several Chrome-based laptops on the market, and a couple of Chromebox desktops, too. The <p>LG Chromebase</> ($349.99) takes the Chromebox concept a step further, and builds it into an all-in-one desktop. The form factor adds a monitor, keyboard and mouse while maintaining the low price that makes Google's Windows PC alternatives so compelling. Design and FeaturesThe Chromebase is simply a Chromebox built into a monitor. Setting aside the unique aspects of the all-in-one design, it has a lot in common with the Editors' Choice <p>Asus Chromebox M004U</>, our top pick for Chrome-based desktops. Both systems feature an Intel Celeron 2955U processor, 2GB of RAM, and 16GB of on-board Flash storage. Differences stem mostly from the LG system's chassis design with its integrated display and a different combination of USB 2.0 and 3.0 ports. The Chromebase comes with a wired USB keyboard and mouse. Both peripherals are white, matching the white-and-silver color scheme of the chassis and stand. The 21.5-inch In-Plane Switching (IPS) display has a 1,920-by-1,080 resolution. The IPS screen is pretty amazing on its own at this price, and offers excellent color quality and viewing angles. It lacks touch capability, but doesn't really need it, since Chrome isn't reliant on touch the way Windows 8 or Android is. Built into the screen is a feature called Reader mode, which adjusts the color output to reduce the blue glow that causes eye fatigue and can disrupt sleep patterns. LG also touts the minimal flicker level of the display, which should also reduce eye strain. The Chromebase can be used as a standalone monitor, thanks to an HDMI port on the back of the system. This extra functionality means that even if you need more than Chrome in the future, you've got a screen you can use with another desktop or laptop. Unlike Chromeboxes and Chromebooks, the Chromebase does require a little bit of assembly. The stand comes in three pieces that need to be snapped together and secured with the included screws. (You'll need your own Phillips head screwdriver.) Otherwise, it's a painless process—the pieces snap together easily, and the process and instructions are straightforward. There's a single USB 3.0 port and a headset jack on the front right edge of the system. Above the display is a built-in HD webcam, which captures video at 720p. Just below the display are buttons for adjusting the system's display brightness and audio volume, powering the system on and off, and a button for activating Reader mode. On the back, you'll find three USB 2.0 ports—two of which will be occupied with the wired keyboard and mouse—a Gigabit Ethernet port, and HDMI input. A Kensington lock slot lets you physically secure the system. Since connectivity is so essential to the Web-centric Chrome OS, the Chromebase is equipped with Gigabit Ethernet and 802.11n Wi-Fi, giving you both wired and wireless networking options. The Chromebase also integrates Bluetooth, for pairing supported peripherals. Chrome Goes All-in-One As an all-in-one desktop that doesn't run Windows or Mac, the Chromebase is something of a loner, with the closest comparison being the <p>HP Slate 21</>, an Android-powered all-in-one that leverages a touch screen in an attempt to create a tablet experience writ large. In the case of the <p>HP Slate 21</>, that attempt largely failed, creating a distorted version of Android that didn't look great, and rarely performed as expected. Thankfully, that isn't the case with the Chromebase, as the Chrome OS is right at home on the desktop, and all Chrome apps are made to run on full-size monitors, and to be used with the keyboard and mouse. In fact, the single biggest hurdle for Chrome users is simply getting used to the always-online nature of the operating system. The OS relies heavily on the Chrome Web browser, and instead of software, Chrome uses apps from the Chrome Web store for much of its functionality. The good news is that many of these apps are inexpensive (if not free), but the software you may be used to running on a Windows machine won't work here—it can't even be installed. Storage relies on Google Drive, with apps like Google Docs and Google Sheets replacing familiar Office apps like Word and Excel. As always with Chrome OS-equipped systems, the Chromebase comes with one big caveat: If you need to use a specific Windows or Mac program, such as Microsoft Access or Adobe Creative Suite, you'll need to find yourself a Windows or Mac system that will support it, because Chrome simply doesn't support most commercial software. That said, if your computer use revolves around Web browsing, creating documents, or even some photo and video editing, there are options available that will let you go full Chrome. While home-based users will likely need to make some adjustments if they want to use the Chrome-powered desktop as their main computer, the Chromebase is especially well-suited to uses outside of the home. Whether it's providing Internet access in a public library or school, giving retail customers a way to shop an online catalog, or serving up information about local attractions in a hotel lobby, the Internet-connected, guest-friendly Chromebase looks like it could be an especially good fit. Performance In day-to-day use, the Chromebase provides a solid user experience, providing the same sort of consistency and ease of use as the Editors' Choice <p>Asus Chromebox M004U</>. Given the similarities in hardware, this is no surprise. Startup time is fast—from a cold start to the sign-in screen in about 9 seconds, and to the desktop in 15 seconds total—and performance under regular-use conditions is very good, with Web pages and media content loading quickly. The first hint of slowing down doesn't occur until you have 9 or 10 tabs open for content-heavy sites, or when streaming 1080p video. The Chromebase itself is only equipped with 16GB of on-board storage, but the all-in-one comes with a complimentary 100 gigabytes of Google Drive storage for 2 years, a significant bump up from the 15GB that comes free with the service. LG covers the Chromebase with a standard one-year warranty. Conclusion If you want a terminal for browsing the Web or using Chrome's myriad apps, the <p>LG Chromebase</> is a simple and elegant way to go. By combining the simplicity of Chrome OS with a straightforward all-in-one design, LG has created a Chromebox alternative that comes in at much less than even our Editors' Choice for entry-level all-in-one PCs, the <p>Gateway ZX4270-UB31</>. It's a little more expensive than the Asus Chromebox M400U, but given that the <p>LG Chromebase</> includes a monitor, keyboard, and mouse for less than $200 more, it's still an exceptionally affordable option. Most shoppers looking for an inexpensive desktop will opt for the <p>Gateway ZX4270-UB31</>, but if Windows isn't a necessity for you, it's worth considering the <p>LG Chromebase</>.