Gaming is a big part of the PC market these days, but it's rare to find a truly powerful machine at an affordable price. The latest iteration of the <p>Maingear Vybe</> ($1,690 as tested) is just that desktop, leveraging affordable components to produce impressive performance, and offering plenty of room for adding storage and swapping out parts. Plus, the midsize tower is a nice change of pace from the several small-form-factor systems we've seen in this price range. Add it all up, and the <p>Maingear Vybe</> replaces the <p>Digital Storm Eclipse</> as our Editors' Choice for midrange gaming desktops. Design and Features Gaming desktop designs usually go one of two ways: completely over the top, with garish colors, custom paint jobs, and more lights than a Christmas tree; or utilitarian and subdued, ignoring the looks to focus on the purely functional and powerful hardware inside. The Vybe, somewhat refreshingly, takes something of a middle path, with a look that has some style, but doesn't scream "gamer" quite so loudly. The aluminum construction of the midsize tower has matte, space-gray panels on the top and sides, accented with a few LED-lit fans inside, and a Plexiglas window on the left-hand side to show off the interior. The back panel and interior of the tower add a splash of color with glossy-red paint. The front panel is relatively tame, with a black, plastic vent grille. The front panel has Power and Reset buttons, jacks for headphones and microphone, two USB 3.0 ports, and an LG Blu-ray burner. Most of the Vybe's ports are on the rear panel, where you'll find six USB ports (four USB 3.0, two USB 2.0), a PS2 port, an Ethernet jack, and multiple audio connections, including headphone, microphone, S/PDIF and line-in. The main rear panel also has connections for HDMI, DVI, and VGA, but these are disabled—you'll need to connect to the rear ports coming off of one or both of the system's graphics cards. Each graphics card has three DisplayPort 1.2 outputs, along with single outputs for HDMI and DVI-D. For storage, our review unit came with a single 250GB Samsung 850 EVO solid-state drive (SSD), which isn't a lot of storage space, especially not compared with the 1TB hard drive found in the 2013 version of the Vybe. Thankfully, there's not much on the drive to fill it up; in addition to Windows 8.1, the system comes with Nvidia's GeForce Experience, which is both a dashboard for driver updates and managing card settings and Nvidia's tool for baked-in features for recording and streaming video, or streaming your games to Nvidia Shield devices. Maingear also offers buyers a free 12-month subscription of McAfee AntiVirus Plus, but it is an optional offer that you'll need to select during configuration. Maingear covers the Vybe with a comprehensive one-year warranty, as well as lifetime service on upgrades and repairs. Components Open up the left side of the tower—a simple task, thanks to a single thumb screw—and you'll be met with a very cleanly laid-out interior that omits any unnecessary cabling for extra drives or other components (they're included in a separate bag) and runs what cables are there around the back of the motherboard, leaving a very uncluttered space. The full ATX chassis measures 17.3 by 8.25 by 19.9 inches (HWD), so there's plenty of room for upgrades. The system is built around a Gigabyte GA-Z97X-SLI motherboard with an Intel Core i5-4690K CPU and 8GB of Corsair Vengeance DDR3-1600 memory. Two PNY graphics cards, based on Nvidia's GeForce GTX 960 GPU, offer plenty of muscle for gaming and graphics, and put the new system miles ahead of the single GPU version of the <p>Maingear Vybe</> we saw back in 2013, which had a lone GeForce GTX 650 Ti card. All of this hardware is powered with a 750-watt EVGA power supply. The processor is kept cool with a Maingear Epic 120 water cooling system, which has a rear-mounted radiator and 120mm fan. There are also two 120mm intake fans on the front and two 120mm exhaust fans on the top of the tower. All four are lit with red LEDs, but there is no control to adjust or turn off the lighting. The Vybe also leaves things wide open for upgrades. Though our system came with only 8GB of RAM (two 4GB modules), there are actually four RAM slots, and each will accommodate up to 8GB of memory for a total of 32GB. The two graphics cards are big enough that they block the third, unoccupied PCIe port. In addition to the optical drive, there are two free 5.25-inch drive bays. Since our review unit only has a single 250GB SSD, there are lots of options for adding storage, with three open 2.5-inch bays and four open 3.5-inch bays. Finally, there's space in the bottom of the tower for a fifth 120mm fan. Performance As mentioned earlier, the Vybe is equipped with a 3.5GHz Intel Core i5-4690K, the same model of quad-core processor used in the <p>Digital Storm Eclipse</>, but in this system, the CPU has also been unlocked for overclocking, which should let you push it as high as 4.7GHz. Paired with 8GB of RAM, it's a surprisingly potent performer—tested in standard mode, without overclocking engaged—especially considering that most gaming systems opt for higher-performing Core i7 processors. In PCMark 8 Work Conventional, the Vybe scored 3,880 points, putting it ahead of the <p>Digital Storm Eclipse</> (3,809 points) and the Core-i7-equipped <p>Acer Predator AG3-605-UR39</> (3,128 points), but it fell behind the <p>Lenovo Erazer X510</> (5,005), which boasts an unlocked Core i7 processor. For a clearer idea of the performance offered by the Vybe, look at the times in our Handbrake and Photoshop CS6 tests in relation to the competition. In Handbrake the Vybe completed transcoding of our test video in 1 minute 2 seconds, several seconds ahead of most competing systems, and only a second behind the <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</> (1:01). It also completed the Photoshop test in 2 minutes 26 seconds, outpacing all of the comparison systems. But CPU performance isn't the whole story for a gaming PC, and graphics prowess is paramount when it comes to gaming performance. Armed with two PNY GTX 960 midrange GPUs, with 2GB of dedicated VRAM for each, the desktop's performance is quite impressive, given the sub-$2,000 price tag. In 3DMark, the Vybe scored 23,449 points in Cloud Gate (our moderate 3DMark test) and 5,768 points in FireStrike Extreme (the more demanding 3DMark graphics test). The second number is the most applicable, and the Vybe has a pronounced advantage, thanks to the SLI-configured, dual-card setup; similarly priced single-GPU systems struggled to come close, and only the Lenovo X510 (5,469 points) managed to break the 5,000-point mark. In our Heaven 4.0 and Valley 1.0 tests, which are our DirectX 11 gaming simulations, the system turned in scores of 85 frames per second (fps) and 84fps, respectively, rocketing past the competition. These tests are run at 1,920-by-1,080 resolution, but with numbers that high, you should be able to get playable performance even if you crank things up to 4K resolution, though you may need to dial back some of the more demanding detail settings. Conclusion As components like graphics cards and processors become more powerful, those improvements trickle down to midrange systems, making it easier than ever to get a high-performance gaming experience in a system that costs less than $2,000. That combination of powerful gaming performance and ample room for upgrades puts the 2015 <p>Maingear Vybe</> ahead of the pack, becoming our Editors' Choice midrange gaming desktop.