Though once a very small niche among enthusiasts, ultraportable gaming laptops have grown to be a substantial subset of gaming notebooks in general, and ultraportable design has crossed over into other categories, too. Take for example the <p>Maingear Pulse 15</> ($2,325 as tested), which is ultrathin and light, but its 15-inch size is a bit large for a true ultraportable, making it a midrange gaming laptop. The Pulse 15 is the bigger sibling to Maingear's Pulse 14, with a larger higher-resolution display and a slimmer chassis. It squares off against others, like the Editors' Choice <p>MSI GS60 Ghost Pro 3K</>, and while it doesn't supplant the leader, it proves itself a worthy peer. Design The chassis sports an all-metal construction, making for a slim, yet sturdy design. Measuring just 0.8 by 15.4 by 10.5 inches (HWD) and weighing 3.9 pounds, the 15-inch system is large enough to enjoy the latest games, but thin enough to carry in a laptop bag, something you couldn't claim about any gaming laptop just a couple of years ago. It does get hot when you really let it go to town with a demanding game, but no more so than other slim-bodied systems, topping out at 100 degrees (as measured by a Fluke IR thermometer). That's cooler than both the <p>Razer Blade (2014)</> (126 degrees) and the <p>MSI GS60 Ghost Pro 3K</> (108 degrees). It looks quite similar to the MSI Ghost Pro, with both systems offering comparable components in what is essentially the same chassis. To help differentiate between the two, Maingear offers some fancy Glasurit paint jobs, with a rainbow of colors available, in either glossy or matte finishes. Our review unit came in an eye-catching orange, but you can get any color you choose, or you can skip it for a black, brushed-aluminum finish. The matte paint job makes for a nice soft-touch feel. The real treat of this system is the 15.6-inch 3K display, which boasts a 2,880-by-1,620 resolution and an impressive In-Plane Switching (IPS) panel. The color quality is very good, and it has pretty wide viewing angles, too, but there is some reflectivity on the glass of the display. It's not quite as nice as the 3,200-by-1,800 Indium Gallium Zinc Oxide (IGZO) display seen on the Razer Blade, but it's still a giant step up from full HD. There are four built-in SoundBlaster speakers plus an integrated subwoofer for sound that is clear and deep. The chiclet-style keyboard has multizone, colored backlighting, with each zone color-customizable. While it looks just like the keyboard seen on the <p>MSI GS60 Ghost Pro 3K</>—right down to the font on the keys—the Maingear model doesn't boast the SteelSeries branding. It does, however, still offer full anti-ghosting, letting you press several keys simultaneously without the keyboard locking up or slowing down your game controls. The wide clickpad is quite spacious, but without discrete right and left buttons, even gamers who like gaming on a trackpad—and they are few and far between—will probably want a dedicated gaming mouse. Features On the right side of the laptop, you'll find a single USB 3.0 port, an SD card slot, an HDMI port, and a mini DisplayPort. The Ethernet port comes with Qualcomm's Killer-brand networking hardware, which is optimized for gaming, and prioritizes online gaming and media streaming traffic for lower latency and better performance. On the left side are jacks for headphones and a microphone, two USB 3.0 ports, and a Kensington lock slot. Dual-band 802.11ac Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0 come standard. You'll get plenty of storage, with a 1TB, 7,200rpm hard drive combined with a pair of 128GB solid-state drives (SSDs) in RAID 0, offering zippy performance and spacious storage. That's a full terabyte more than the Razer Blade offers, but it's on par with the smaller <p>Maingear Pulse 14</> and the MSI GS60, which both offer a similar trio of drives. Maingear doesn't weigh down the Pulse 15 with extra software, so the only things installed on the drive are the Windows 8.1 (64-bit) operating system and drivers for the Nvidia graphics card. The GPU comes with Nvidia's Optimus automatic graphics-switching technology, and a dashboard, called GeForce Experience, that lets you adjust the card settings and maximize performance. Nvidia now includes a lot more with GeForce Experience, with BatteryBoost, for better on-the-go gaming performance, ShadowPlay, which lets you capture gameplay footage using a DVR-like tool, and GameStream, which lets you stream games from the PC to the Nvidia Shield handheld. Maingear covers the Pulse 15 with a one-year warranty and adds a lifetime of phone support and labor for repairs and maintenance on top of that. Performance The Pulse 15 is outfitted with a 2.5GHz Intel Core i7-4710HQ, 16GB of RAM, and an Nvidia GeForce GTX 870M graphics card, the same hardware options seen in the <p>MSI GS60 Ghost Pro 3K</>. Understandably, this led to extremely similar, though not identical, performance between the two across the board. For instance, the Pulse 15 managed 3,047 points in PCMark 8 Work Conventional compared with the MSI GS60's 2,988 points, but it fell behind by an equally narrow margin in Cinebench R15 with 556 points against the MSI GS60's 656 points. The same can be seen on our multimedia tests, where the difference between the two is negligible—the Pulse 15 completed Handbrake in 1 minute 22 seconds and Photoshop in 3:29, while the MSI GS60 edged ahead in both, finishing in 1:14 and 3:26, respectively. The more important performance results for a gaming machine are in our graphics and frame rate tests. With its Nvidia GeForce GTX 870M graphics card and 3GB of dedicated video emory, the Pulse 15 scored 16,709 (CloudGate), and 2,192 (FireStrike). In gaming tests, with the resolution at 1,366-by-768 and the detail settings turned down, it cranked through Heaven at 80 frames per second (fps) and scored 94fps in Valley. With the resolution dialed up to 1,080p and the eye-candy turned on, frame rates dropped considerably, down to 12fps in Heaven and 16fps in Valley. At lower resolutions, the Pulse 15 will handle any game you throw at it, but the 3K display supports higher resolutions than the GPU can adequately handle. Interestingly enough, this isn't a problem we saw on the MSI GS60 Ghost Pro, despite the similar hardware and display. The Pulse 15 lasted 3 hours 13 minutes on our rundown test, only four minutes behind the MSI GS60, but a full hour behind the latest Razer Blade (4:15). Nonetheless, it does offer some battery life, and will even allow some on-the-go gaming. Conclusion The <p>Maingear Pulse 15</> is a solid slim midrange laptop, and why wouldn't it be? It shares the same chassis and similar specs as our Editors' Choice <p>MSI GS60 Ghost Pro 3K</>. But while we still love the slim design, the impressive 3K display, and even the improved speakers and stylish paintjob, the <p>MSI GS60 Ghost Pro 3K</> offers a better overall package with slightly better gaming performance, and remains our top pick.