Touted by Microsoft as the single-device replacement for a laptop and a tablet, the larger Surface Pro 3 ($1,299 as tested) is only partially successful as the ultimate mobile PC. Sure, it is a much better laptop replacement than previous Win 8 slate tablets thanks to its bright, clear, 12-inch, 2,160-by-1,440-resolution screen, but the larger display and added weight makes it more uncomfortable to use than most tablets. Sure, it's the "thinnest Intel Core PC" on the market right now, but its length and width have increased along with its screen size. Plus, you need to buy additional accessories to make it work like a laptop, adding more bulk, and increasing the overall price, which is already $100 more than the top configuration of the latest <p>Apple MacBook Air 13-inch</>. Some features, like the Type Cover, which costs an extra $129.99, are improved, but other problems still remain. The Surface Pro 3 isn't exactly the ultimate melding of laptop and tablet, at least not in its current iteration. Editors' Note: This review is for an old version of the Surface Pro. Read the review of the current <p>Microsoft Surface Pro 4</>. I tested the middle configuration (of five), which comes with 8GB of memory, an Intel Core i5 processor, and a 256GB solid-state drive (SSD). You can go as low as $799 for the base model, with 4GB of memory, an Intel Core i3 CPU, and a 64GB SSD, or as high as $1,949 for a Surface Pro 3 with 8GB of memory, an Intel Core i7 processor, and a 512GB SSD. Design and Features At 8 by 11.5 by 0.36 inches (HWD), the Surface Pro 3 is larger than the <p>Microsoft Surface Pro 2</>, but not by much—the Surface Pro 2 measured 0.53 by 11 by 7 inches (HWD), just large enough for its 10.6-inch display. With the same length and width of a letter-size sheet of paper, the Surface Pro 3 falls into the hand easily. Holding the tablet, it feels more balanced than the Surface Pro 2 and some other tablets, like the Lenovo IdeaPad Miix 10. The Surface Pro 3 weighs 1.75 pounds, but that's just for the slate tablet alone. The weight goes up to 2.44 pounds if you add the Surface Pen and the Type Cover. That's about three quarters of a pound more than the Apple iPad Air, and a little over a half-pound lighter than the 13-inch <p>Apple MacBook Air</>. Not bad, but that's pushing the limits of an everyday mobile companion you carry everywhere. I took the tablet on my train commute and used it walking around the house and the lab during testing. Resting the tablet and cover on your lap is fine in short bursts, and it can be comfortably used for hours situated on a table with the kickstand. But it's as heavy as a laptop when you're holding it in one hand, and it will weigh your arm down in short order if you hold it in the crook of your elbow. I was starting to miss using an iPad Air after holding the Surface Pro 3 in one hand for more than 15 minutes or so. The adjustable kickstand lets you tilt the tablet back to a comfortable angle (anywhere from 22 to 150 degrees) when you're sitting down with the Surface Pro 3 on your lap. The action on the hinge takes a little effort to change angles, but that's likely to loosen up the longer you use it. This is a more secure mechanism than tablets like the <p>Sony VAIO Tap 11</> that simply slot into their keyboards without a positive lock. That said, the Surface Pro 3 is just a bit too large to sit on some laps with the cover installed. That and the fact that the kickstand can still dig into your legs is just a problem inherent in the Surface design. Is it more comfortable than the Surface Pro 2? Perhaps, but it's still nowhere near as comfortable to use on your lap as a traditional clamshell laptop like the <p>Apple MacBook Air</> 11-inch or the <p>Dell XPS 13</> Touch. The excellent 12-inch, 2,160-by-1,440-resolution screen is made of Gorilla Glass. It's a step up from the 1,920-by-1,080 resolution of the Surface Pro 2, and the larger display is bright and clear, with good scaling of the Windows 8 interface. Colors pop, and sample images looked vibrant and lifelike in my tests. HD videos from YouTube and Netflix looked great at 1080p, with clear visuals and smooth animation. Sound from the speakers emanates from two slits cut between the screen's glass and the magnesium outer bezel, aimed right up at your ears if you're using the tablet on a table. Stereo separation is very good, and the speakers play at a reasonably loud level in a small room, with no distortion. The built-in rear 5-megapixel and front-facing 1080p webcams show smooth enough animation for Skype, and are adequate for quick snapshots. Make sure your subjects are well-lit, though, because low-light shots from the 5-megapixel camera are a bit noisy overall and lose detail in dark areas of the image. Connectors are limited to one USB 3.0 port, a mini DisplayPort, a headset jack, and power. There's also a MicroSD card slot for expansion. The new power adapter has a spade-shaped plug on the end, rather than the flat, magnetic plug seen on the first two iterations of the Surface Pro. This means that you'll have to buy new adapters and accessories if you're planning to upgrade from an older Surface tablet. The included Surface Pen, made by N-trig, is chunkier than the stylus that was bundled with the last model, and you can no longer clip it to the charging port. You're clearly meant to keep this in your shirt pocket like a real pen. There's storage in the optional Type Cover, but it's just a flimsy loop that will likely tear at some point. Microsoft seems to have anticipated this, as it offers replacement pen loops for $4.99. Extra pens go for $49.99 each. The pen's top-mounted button feels like the one on a traditional ballpoint pen. When you click, it automatically wakes the tablet and opens OneNote on a new blank document. Clearly, Microsoft designed the system with note-taking in mind. The Surface Pen glides easily on the Gorilla Glass, with only a minor visible lag in drawing if you move the pen too fast. The line fills in almost before you can lift the pen off the Surface. Thanks to the optically bonded glass, the pen tip meets the line on your drawing on the screen perfectly. On older pen-based systems, you'd see a gap between the stylus tip and any pixels you were drawing on screen. The pen has two buttons, which can function as erase and select in OneNote, or other functions, like right-click, while navigating Windows 8.1. Aside from OneNote, the tablet comes with the standard set of Microsoft applications, including Fresh Paint, Office Trial, Skype, and a handful of free games like Solitaire and Sudoku. A one-year warranty is standard for Surface tablets.