The <p>MSI PE70 2QD-062US</> ($1,299.99 as tested) is an entry-level gaming laptop that has high-end looks, thanks to its slick design and brilliant 17-inch, full HD screen. The system has its gaming credentials in order, including an enthusiast-oriented Nvidia GeForce GTX 950M GPU, a speedy fourth-generation Intel Core i7 processor, and 16GB of system memory. It's a moderate gaming performer, lagging behind the <p>Alienware 15</>, our current Editors' Choice entry-level gaming laptop, but the PE70 2QD-062US is still a good bang-for-the-buck proposition. Design and Features The PE70 2QD-062US has a brushed-aluminum top lid and keyboard deck, with a black-colored chassis and bezel around the screen. It looks formidable, measuring 1.14 by 16.5 by 11 (HWD) and weighing in at about six pounds. It's lighter than other 17-inchers, like the <p>Lenovo Y70 Touch</>, but it's meant to be used as a desktop-replacement laptop rather than one you'd take on your daily commute. The backlit keyboard is comfortable to use, and is gamer-oriented, with the Windows key relocated to the right of the space bar, safe from accidental taps during gaming sessions. The responsive touchpad has two physical mouse buttons, which are easier to use than the one-piece touchpad on the <p>Acer Aspire V 15 Nitro (VN7-591G-75S2)</> or the <p>Lenovo Y70 Touch</>. The 17.3-inch LCD is (pardon the pun) a bright spot. At 1,920 by 1,080, its resolution is lower than the 4K resolution of the <p>Acer Aspire V 15 Nitro (VN7-591G-76JG)</>. We think that a 1080p display is better suited to entry-level gaming GPUs, like the Nvidia GeForce GTX 950M, as the performance numbers bear out (more on that below). The screen is pre-calibrated and can be set to different modes for different usage scenarios. These include design work, gaming, office apps, movie watching, 100% sRGB color gamut, and a setting called anti-blue. The last setting supposedly reduces blue colors to help with eye fatigue, but to our eyes it simply makes everything more sepia-toned. I suppose it will help with long reading or word-processing sessions, but the colors seem really off in anti-blue mode. In the default sRGB mode, however, the display looks bright and exceptionally crisp. Watching movies is a joy on the PE70 2QD-062US' screen, and audio comes through loud and clear. The system has stereo speakers with a subwoofer, which produce enough distortion-free sound to fill a medium-size room. Viewing angles are good, so a viewing party isn't out of the question for you and a pair of friends sitting together on a couch. An anti-glare coating quells reflections on the screen. Both Netflix and YouTube looked fine from close up and at six feet away in our testing, with smooth gradients and good black levels. Connectivity is excellent. A mini DisplayPort and an HDMI port support multi-monitor setups. Using these ports, you can connect two more displays simultaneously so you can converse on IM, play a game, and surf the Web all at the same time. An Ethernet port with Killer-branded networking, a headset jack, a microphone jack, and three USB 3.0 ports join the graphics ports on the left side of the laptop. On the right, you'll find the tray-loading DVD burner, the Power jack, an SD card slot, and a USB 2.0 port, so you can hook up your gaming mouse. Wireless connections include Bluetooth and 802.11ac Wi-Fi. The 16GB of system memory is plenty for multitasking while playing today's game titles, and is likely to be sufficient for many years. Likewise, the 1TB, 7,200rpm SATA hard drive has enough space for many downloads, games, and videos. The spinning hard drive is a bit slower loading programs than the solid-state drive (SSD) on systems like the Acer Aspire V 15 Nitro and the latest <p>Alienware 15</>, but it also keeps the price lower than those two. Good thing there's so much space, since the system comes with more than 20 extra apps installed on the Start screen alone. You'll find extras like Evernote, Fresh Paint, TuMetro, and Wild Tangent Games. The system also has a habit of bugging you to register its trial version of Norton Internet Security. Budget at least an hour or two to get rid of the programs you don't plan on using. The system comes with a one-year warranty, which is par for the category. Performance A fourth-generation Intel Core i7-4720HQ processor and Nvidia GeForce GTX 950M provide adequate gaming performance and very good multimedia scores on our benchmark tests. On the game grid, the PE70 2QD-062US achieved rock-solid playable frame rates on our Heaven (79 frames per second or fps) and Valley (76fps) gaming tests, at Medium-quality settings and 1,366 by 768 resolution for both tests. When pushed to Ultra-quality settings at the native 1,920-by-1,080 resolution, however, frame rates started to stutter (19fps in Heaven; 21fps in Valley). Most entry-level laptops like the Acer Aspire V 15 Nitro, the Lenovo V70 Touch, and the <p>MSI GE62 Apache</> had a similar split in performance. You should be able to get these systems playing smoothly at native resolution, but it will involve some tweaking with antialiasing and quality settings. The only entry-level system that could play our game tests smoothly at Ultra-quality settings at its native 1080p resolution was the <p>Alienware 15</> (38 fps in Heaven; 44fps in Valley). Multimedia scores are excellent for the category. The laptop completed the Handbrake test in a short 1 minute 13 seconds, and the Adobe Photoshop CS6 test in a similarly short 3:21. CineBench R15 scores were also excellent at 671 points. All three scores were ahead of those of competitors, from a few seconds to over a minute on each of the tests. Battery life usually isn't a strong point for large gaming laptops, and it's particularly true in this case. Competitors were able to outlast the PE70 2QD-062US, which could only manage 2 hours 27 minutes on our rundown test. The <p>Lenovo Y70 Touch</> ran over an hour and a half longer (3:58), and the champ was the <p>Alienware 15</>, which finally gave up after 5:29. Yes, the large 17-inch screen used a lot of energy, but the system also has a lot of space for battery packs. Keep the power adapter handy. Conclusion The <p>MSI PE70 2QD-062US</> is a good choice if you're a content-creation hobbyist who likes to indulge in gaming once in a while. The Core i7 processor, brilliant screen, and clear speakers will definitely make creating the next YouTube masterpiece a pleasant experience. However, the <p>Alienware 15</> is better for the budding hardcore gamer, due to its better game performance and its expandability with Alienware's Graphics Amplifier. That system remains our Editors' Choice entry-level gaming laptop.