Nokia is one of the most unlikely companies to launch a netbook, given that cell phones are its claim to fame. Most manufacturers can attest that the key to a successful netbook is to find the right combination of differentiators while minimizing its flaws. The Booklet 3G is arguably the most luxurious netbook혰looks and price-wise혰swaddled in fine aluminum metals and costing a whopping $600, without subsidies. While the design, battery life, and user experience are exceptional for a first-time netbook maker, Nokia did have some missteps. Pricing is the first. The second is the combination of the slow hard drive (4,200rpm), 1GB of memory, and Windows 7 Home Premium, which essentially crippled performance. Design Admittedly, I wasn't all that impressed with the design when news broke at the Nokia World 2009 summit, but my conclusions were based on blog photos and manufacturer-supplied images. Feeling the unit in my hands, however, painted an entirely different picture: The Booklet 3G is easily one of the most luxurious netbooks to date, eclipsing other classy netbooks like the <p>HP Mini 5101</> and <p>Sony Lifestyle PC (VGN-588EQ)</>. The key factor is its use of aluminum metals. Though it isn't covered in them like an Apple MacBook Pro, the Booklet 3G uses enough metals in the right places, giving it a "heft" similar to what you would experience with a Rolex watch. The lid is made up of black glossy plastics, with aluminum trimmings that give it a gemstone-look. Inversely, the bottom half is made up of mostly aluminum metals with black plastic trimmings. Netbooks like the HP 5101 and <p>ASUS EeePC 1002HA</> have brushed aluminum metals covering their lids, which also work beautifully. Meanwhile, the <p>Toshiba mini NB205</> uses textures that embellish its design in a way that also works in its favor. At 2.7 pounds, the Booklet 3G is slightly lighter than the HP 5101 (2.9 lbs), Toshiba NB205 (2.9 lbs), and <p>Samsung N120 (12GBK)</> (2.8 lbs). The Booklet's 10-inch widescreen would have been as generic as its peers had it not been for its funky resolution: At 1,280-by-720, it's slightly higher and better looking than the 1,024-by-600 ones found in a typical netbook. The HP 5101 and <p>Sony VAIO VPC-W11XX</> are exceptions in that their 10-inch screens are available with 1,366-by-768 resolutions. The keyboard is isolated and bumpy-looking, with most of the keys having the dimensions of a perfect square. It's ideal for those who have small hands or slender fingers, as its 91% key pitch isn't as wide as the full-size ones found in the Toshiba NB205, HP 5101, and Samsung N120. The Booklet's navigating experience, however, was as fantastic as that of the Toshiba NB205, as the touchpad and mouse buttons are standard size and very comfortable to use. Features For the most part, the Booklet 3G has a very impressive set of features. The bloated price tag, in fact, is indicative of these features, as Intel imposes a hefty premium on netbook makers who venture out of the norm or try to get too fancy. An HDMI port on a 10-inch netbook, which the Booklet has, is almost unheard of. Next to the SD-Only slot, is another slot stuffed with a SIM card. A SIM card essentially gives you access to a high-speed cellular network (most likely AT&T only in the U.S, since its specs aren't compatible with T-Mobile's). For a traveler or business professional, having access to a ubiquitous broadband connection might be worth the 2-year contract with AT&T, which would drop the price of the Booklet to $300 (It costs $600 without a contract). Aside from these two things, the rest of the feature set is pretty ordinary. It comes with three USB ports, a 1.3-Megapixel Webcam, and a headphone jack. With HDMI built-in, Nokia didn't bother to include a VGA-Out port혰a video-out connection that most netbook makers usually prefer to bundle. A pair of speakers rests on each side (near the front bezel), which sounded tinny playing back several music files. The only major miscue is the slow-spinning hard drive (4200rpm), which will impact performance later on. Even the 120GB capacity isn't all that impressive when most netbooks average 160GB. Performance Because of Intel's unwritten guidelines, the Booklet 3G is limited to the Atom Z series platform. The 1.6GHz Intel Atom Z530 processor is top of the line for that series, but still isn't fast as the N280 processors found in the HP 5101 and Toshiba NB205. It's also supported by only 1GB of DDR2 memory and integrated graphics. Performance wouldn't have suffered as much had the Booklet 3G included a faster (5,400rpm) hard drive and used Windows XP instead of Windows 7 Home Premium (though the OS isn't what hinders performance here). Granted, the shipping version of the Booklet 3G will have Windows 7 Starter edition, but the hard drive proved to be its biggest obstruction. Navigating the desktop felt slow, and the Control Panel took a good 5 seconds to populate the icons. Installing software and even booting up the system seemed slower than other netbooks. Nokia doesn't offer an option to upgrade to a faster hard drive or more memory, and there's no easy way to upgrade the memory module yourself, so what you see is what you get. Furthermore, I validated the anecdotal experience with video encoding tests: The Booklet 3G's 5-minute 55-second score was over a minute behind the Toshiba NB205 (4:45) and HP 5101 (4:24). The only performance bright spot was battery life. The battery pack itself is flat and thin and spans half the area of the Booklet's base. Despite being able to pack 16 cells into it, the battery's capacity is 57Wh, which is equivalent to the 6-cell batteries found in the HP 5101 (55WH), Toshiba NB205 (63WH), and Samsung N120 (57WH). Still, the Booklet 3G managed a MobileMark 2007 score of 8 hours 50 minutes혰an impressive feat for a netbook, but right in line with the Toshiba NB205 (8:27). In the end, I do understand what all the initial hype was about. The <p>Nokia Booklet 3G</> is a classy-looking product, with a body that can rival Apple's line of aluminum laptops. Sadly, looks aren't enough to carry all the weight of a netbook. Although this netbook embeds some cool features and delivered awesome battery life, it's an impulse purchase with speeds that will ultimately disappoint you down the line. If you feel like splurging, this netbook will only be available through Best Buy (you can also get the AT&T 2-year contract via Best Buy and thus get the Booklet subsidized for $300). Otherwise, I would consider other classy-looking netbooks like the <p>HP Mini 5101</> and Editors' Choice <p>Toshiba mini NB205</>.