whenever an overdrive pc comes into the labs, i look forward to what's sure to be an interesting review. and when the <p>overdrive core2.x-fire</> ($6,902 direct as tested) arrived, it didn't disappoint. in a move that shows the shift of the enthusiast industry, overdrive has blessed the core2.x-fire with an intel core 2 extreme processor. until now, all the overdrive pcs i've reviewed have been based on amd's high-end athlon 64 fx or opteron cpus. as i expected, the core2.x-fire absolutely obliterated the records on our benchmark tests—and it still runs quietly. only its sky-high price and heavy electric power requirements keep the system from attaining most-recommended status. but if your wallet can handle it, the core2.x-fire will be a bragging point that's sure to catapult you to the gaming center of attention (for the time being, at least). the core2.x-fire comes in a huge case that's optimized for airflow. gone are the solid doors of the past—the core2.x-fire's side, front, and top panels are made of perforated metal—and the case is designed to channel air from front to back (kind of like the <p>apple mac pro</>). there are several fans in the pc, including four 120mm fans that blow directly on the motherboard. these are mounted on a swing-out door so you can access the components beneath. furthermore, the core2.x-fire's internal cabling is shortened and recrimped to keep excess cables from disrupting the internal airflow. this practice, common in overdrive pcs, has one drawback: it makes it a chore to disconnect and connect internal cables if you need to access anything in the case—pci cards, for example—not to mention that if you swap components out, the cables may not be long enough to accommodate the new components. of course, this is a relatively minor nit, since people who can afford this pc probably won't have any qualms about sending it back to overdrive for service. the core2.x-fire i tested came with a four-bay, removable hard drive rack that sits in the 5.25-inch drive bays and gives the core2.x-fire a more professional feel. the drives slide in and out of the rack in sleds, as they would in a server. two 150gb, 10,000-rpm drives are linked in a raid 0 array to act as the c: drive, and two 750gb, 7,200 rpm drives are linked to be a fast data drive. together, they give you an astounding 1.8 terabytes (1800gb) of drive space—plenty for your games and downloads—and they all lock into place to prevent them from popping out accidentally. two dual-layer dvd burners complete the core2.x-fire's dual theme (dual-core processor, dual graphics cards, dual sets of dual hard drives, dual optical drives). the system's cpu and gpus are overclocked to the extreme. its dual-core intel core 2 extreme x6800 processor is overclocked from 2.93 ghz to 3.76 ghz, and the radeon ati x1900xt and x1900 crossfire cards are overclocked, too. overdrive has even tweaked the firmware in each graphics card so you don't ever have to fiddle with clock settings in the ati control panel or any third-party software. the cpu, graphics, and 2gb of 800mhz ddr2 system memory combine to give you a monster system. if you're worried about noise, don't be. true, most of the core2.x-fire's components are tweaked and overclocked to the limit of the hardware, and there are lots of fans in the case, but the system is wondrously quiet. how? that's partly where the $6,900 price tag comes in. other, less expensive systems such as the <p>alienware aurora 7500</> and <p>polywell poly 976n4-sli4 quad sli</> are much louder because their fans spin faster. overdrive has solved that problem by replacing the stock cooling fans on the system's radeon graphics cards and the intel stock heat sink with slow-turning, cool-running zalman fans. the other fans in the case also run cool—yet turn slow—to reduce fan noise. thanks to such components, the core2.x-fire is one of the quietest high-performance pcs i've "heard" in ages. these finishing touches—plus the system engineer's time (spent making sure the system is tuned to its limits, shortening and recrimping the internal cabling, and more) and the assurance that you'll be taken care of by gamers like yourself when you call tech support—all factor into the cost. when you load games and programs onto the core2.x-fire, brace yourself: its gaming and applications performance is out of sight. it set new records on 13 of the 19 tests i currently track, and that includes all the high-end systems we've tested—such as the workstation-class, quad-core <p>apple mac pro</> and the former windows-only champ, the <p>falcon northwest mach v</> (core 2 extreme). both doom 3 and splinter cell: chaos theory played smoothly at all resolutions, including the demanding 2,560-by-1,600. the core2.x-fire also made quick work of our adobe photoshop cs2 test, finishing in 28 seconds—two seconds shy of the record set by the mac pro in boot camp. last but not least, the system's dual-core x6800 cpu, fast ddr2 memory, and quick 10,000-rpm drives helped the core2.x-fire achieve the top score on windows media encoder, completing it in 3 minutes 21 seconds. this is clearly a very, very fast machine (though at such a heady price, you have every right to expect this level of performance). as part of my usual review gauntlet, i ran stability tests using 3dmark05 and 06 as 3d stress tests. the core2.x-fire hung a couple of times during this test, but at overdrive's tech support suggestion i tried connecting the core2.x-fire directly to a 500va ups (uninterruptible power supply), which seemed to solve the problem. though we usually recommend using a ups for your pc anyway, this was a surprise, since pc magazine labs' ac power is filtered and power-conditioned to begin with. i would recommend using a ups of 1,000va or more if you're thinking of using the core2.x-fire with a large-screen monitor and surround speakers, and a 1,500va ups if you live in an area known for brownouts or other power issues. a 1,000va ups will cost you an extra $100 to $250, but it's a good insurance policy for your $6,900 system. the <p>overdrive core2.x-fire</> is a monster system, comparable to the swedish koenigsegg ccx sports car: it sets blazing speed records and is comfortable doing so. neither is meant to be built, upgraded, or serviced by mere mortals, and both are out of reach of most consumers. only a few of each are built for a few lucky (and wealthy) individuals—those who think dell xps systems (and porsche cars) are too commonplace, and who are looking for a new way to spend their year-end bonuses. see how the <p>overdrive core2.x-fire</> compares to similar machines in our gaming desktop comparison chart. benchmark test results check out the <p>overdrive core2.x-fire</>'s test results .