The evolution of the UMPC (ultra-mobile PC) platform has been challenging, to say the least. Categorically speaking, what is it? It's a cross between a laptop, a tablet, and a handheld PC. The <p>Samsung Q1</> was one of the first UMPCs to hit the market, and has since struggled to find an identity in the mobile space. It lacked things like a physical keyboard and sufficient processing power, and the design and performance could not justify the price. A refresh, obviously, was long overdue. The <p>Samsung Q1 Ultra</> is a little different this time around, making data input a priority. It adds an integrated keyboard and a much-needed pointing stick and mouse buttons. But despite these additions, the Q1 Ultra ($1,099 list) fails to deliver—again—on Bill Gates's promise of a $600 UMPC (made when he unveiled Microsoft's Origami UMPC project) and doesn't provide enough processing power to handle the ferocity of Windows Vista. The Q1 Ultra still measures 8.8 inches long and roughly an inch thick. The difference is its width. It's slimmed down to 4.7 inches (from 5 inches). To call this device a handheld PC would do the <p>OQO model 02</> a serious injustice. The Q1 Ultra is not something you can pocket. Since the screen is exposed, it's more along the lines of a slate tablet, similar to the Motion Computing LS800. Don't get me wrong—the Q1 Ultra's 1.5-pound frame is a delight to carry, although I wish it came with a better sleeve to protect the intensely bright, 7-inch screen. The screen itself is a mixed blessing—almost blinding when you crank it up to full brightness. It's superb for watching downloaded video or navigating through a photo site such as Flickr. The 1,024-by-600 resolution is the same as the earlier Q1's—not high enough to run certain applications, as you'll see later in this review. The Q1 Ultra's touch screen functions are enabled by Windows Vista. This means that you can launch applications, drag files, change the volume, and adjust the brightness with the touch of a finger. Writing a full sentence with the stylus, on the other hand, can be a frustrating endeavor. The hand holding the stylus naturally presses up against the screen as you write, and this apparently causes some interference—the screen registers the touch from the base of your hand. The key is to use the area below the screen to keep your hand from touching the screen. I prefer to turn the touch-screen functions off in Vista. And this is not a Wacom-enabled, digitizing tablet; pressure-sensitive screens are generally not as responsive to writing as digitized ones. With the Q1 Ultra, Samsung adds a QWERTY keyboard essentially where the speakers used to lie. Unfortunately, it's a split keyboard that occupies both sides of the screen. To make matters worse, it's nearly impossible to type on the Lilliputian keys. They are roughly half the size of the ones found on the Treo 650 or the BlackBerry 8830, and those are already small enough. The only appropriately sized key is the Space key. With the Sony VAIO VGN-UX180P, you literally had to type with your fingertips. With the Q1 Ultra, well, you'll have to type with your fingernails. Alternatively, you can use the virtual keyboard called DialKeys, but it's not that much better, and you'll have to enable touch-screen functions. If you plan on doing extensive writing, a USB or Bluetooth keyboard is the best option. Although Samsung misses the mark with the keyboard, the pointing stick (and by this we mean the mouse, not the stylus) is surprisingly responsive. I would say it's even more responsive than the ones found on the <p>OQO model 02</> and the FlipStart E-1001S. The pointing functions are new to the Samsung UMPC, and so are the left and right mouse buttons. Using them can make navigating the OS and the Web a very pleasant experience. A physical direction wheel (above the mouse buttons) is configurable with different profiles and keyboard commands. For instance, you can create a profile for navigating the Web, arrow keys for word processing, or a Ctrl-Alt-Del key for troubleshooting network issues. A "Shutter" button on the top right gives you access to the 1.3-megapixel camera in the back. The two USB ports are reasonable for such a small unit. I was able to connect a USB-powered optical drive and thumb drive at the same time, without any current limitation issues. There is also an SD card slot available on the right side of the chassis. I was a little surprised that Q1 Ultra couldn't fit a 2.5-inch hard drive. Its 1.8-inch drive limits storage capacity to 60GB and rotational speeds to just 4,200 rpm. This merely adds to the performance woes. Intel recently launched a new 800-MHz UMPC processor dubbed the Intel Processor A110. It's essentially a new core architecture (derived from the Pentium M chip) that's supposed to be a step up from the Celeron M processor found on the original Q1. Still, the unit couldn't keep up with Windows Vista, even with all the visual enhancements turned off. System memory is maxed out at 1GB, which adds to the misery. Launching various applications took far too long, and there was significant lag time between each command. This was true whether I was surfing the Web or working with Microsoft Word. We couldn't run SYSmark 2007 Preview and Adobe Photoshop CS2 tests because of resolution constraints. Both applications require at least a 1,024-by-768 resolution to run. You might want to use Photoshop Elements, a toned-down version of Photoshop CS2, for photo editing. Battery life is limited by the size of the 29-Wh battery. Even with all the low-powered components, it ran for only 2 hours 13 minutes playing a DVD via an external, USB-powered optical drive. You can probably get around three hours doing typical work, which is in the same range as the <p>OQO model 02</> and the FlipStart E-1001S. By adding an integrated keyboard and pointing devices, the <p>Samsung Q1 Ultra</> addresses some of the issues plaguing its predecessor. The Q1 is a decent Web-surfing and video-watching machine, but you'll have a better overall experience with an ultraportable laptop such as the <p>Toshiba Portégé R500</> or the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X60 (Vista)</>, or even a handheld PC such as the <p>OQO model 02</>. Suffice it to say that the only way the Q1 Ultra can really gain market presence would be if Samsung dropped the price down to $500 or $600. But even at that price, I'd think hard before buying one. Benchmark Test Results Check out the <p>Samsung Q1 Ultra</>'s test scores.