When the subject is elegant laptops—the ones that embody the hottest trends in technology in their tiny frames—Sony is usually one of the first companies to be mentioned. The <p>Sony VAIO VGN-TZ298N</> ($3,699 direct) could've been an exceptional and classy sub-3-pound ultraportable, but some of the choices made in the system's features are questionable. Replacing the internal optical drive with a 64GB solid-state drive (SSD) drive boosts the price point astronomically. The amount of trial software loaded on such an underpowered system is beyond the pale. To Sony's credit, though, it offers a base configuration that lets you correct some of these missteps. Sony was innovating with little laptops way before Apple and Lenovo launched the MacBook Air and the ThinkPad X300, respectively. Back in early 2007, the TX series (now known as the TZ) was one of the first to integrate an optical drive and a cellular modem and use carbon fiber in a sub-3-pound frame. The field has grown substantially since then, with each and every manufacturer launching a tiny laptop of its own. Even more amazing is that inexpensive ones, like the <p>ASUS EeePC 900</>, are starting a new category of their own, finally bringing the UMPC (ultramobile PC) concept to fruition. Make no mistake, the TZ298N is an absolute marvel to look at. The carbon-fiber exterior is as sturdy as it is thin, draped over the top of the 11-inch LED screen. At 2.7 pounds, its system weight doesn't benefit from including an SSD drive (in addition to a spinning hard drive), which weighs as much as an internal optical drive that it replaces. At least when the <p>Toshiba Portégé R500 (SSD)</> took out its optical drive, its weight plummeted from 2.4 pounds to an astonishing 1.7 pounds. The TZ298N joins the IdeaPad U110, the <p>ASUS U1F</>, and even the $700 HP 2133 Mini-Note as recent, barely sub-3-pound laptops that have eschewed optical drives. The 91 percent keyboard compares unfavorably with the full-size keyboards on the Lenovo U110, the Panasonic W5, and the Toshiba R500 (SSD). Its key pitch (the distance between the Q and P keys) is the same as that of the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook P8010</>—a bit cramped; but Sony has made the typing experience more tolerable than Fujitsu managed with the P8010. The keys are raised, with more space between them than there is on the P8010, so it's less likely that you'll inadvertently hit adjacent keys. The keys of the MacBook Air are laid out in the same fashion, except they're full size. Seeing that so many 3-pound ultraportables are incorporating full-size keyboards, Sony needs to rethink the keyboard layout. The 64GB SSD drive takes the place of the optical drive, which makes little sense. That SSD and the 250GB spinning one give you a dual-hard-drive configuration, with the 250GB drive primarily holding the operating system and programs and the 64GB SSD storing additional data. An SSD drive does have certain performance benefits, such as (supposedly) faster transfer speeds, but you have to pay a hefty premium for it. Why someone would opt for a second hard drive on such a tiny system is beyond me. The amount of bloatware loaded on the TZ298N is another major flaw. In addition to third-party software like Norton 360 and InterVideo's WinDVD, there were at least 35 VAIO utilities in the Program Features of Windows Vista. Given that the TZ298N is already underpowered, a huge software load was a terrible idea. Not all is lost, though. Sony has a base configuration—the VAIO VGN-TZ2000, starting at $1,699 direct—that will allow you to bring back the internal optical drive and get rid of features that you may not need, like the SSD drive. It even has an option called Fresh Start that lets users opt out of specific VAIO applications, trial software, and games. Alas, Fresh Start is not offered with the TZ298N. A bright spot for the TZ298N is that it's fully equipped with the latest wireless technology. Like the Lenovo X300, it packs a built-in Sprint EV-DO Rev A modem, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth. Even though they can be found in most ultraportables, the webcam and a fingerprint reader are nice additions. Three USB ports, a FireWire port, and both SD and Memory Stick card slots are present. It would be easier to forgive a severely low-powered processor if the software load weren't so crippling. Even with 2GB RAM, the ultra-low-voltage 1.3-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo U7700 struggled at times to launch applications, while boot-up times were significantly slower than those of the Lenovo X300 and the <p>Sony VAIO VGN-SZ791N</>, which have higher-voltage processors. The user experience improves once you uninstall most of the trial software, but a PC will naturally and inevitably slow down over time, and bloatware, even its detritus after removal, will take a toll on system performance. Since the TZ298N has an ultra-low-voltage processor, it's paired with an integrated graphics chipset from a previous generation. Its SYSmark 2007 Preview Overall score was dead last among the seven systems I tested, trailing the Lenovo X300's by 38 percent and the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook P8010</>'s by 20 percent. Video encoding and Photoshop tests were also among the worst in the ultraportable category. Using an underpowered processor does have several key benefits. For one, battery life was a phenomenal 5 hours 50 minutes on MobileMark 2007. Sony is clearly in favor of longer battery life, even if it means sacrificing horsepower. Another key strength of the TZ298N and its low-powered processor is that it can be touted as an environmentally friendly machine. It racks up several green certifications, including Energy Star 4.0, EPEAT Silver, and RoHS. To meet Energy Star's requirements, the TZ298N had to consume no more than 14 watts in idle mode. This was not the case when I ran my own energy consumption tests with a PS3 International Kill A Watt meter: The test indicated the TZ298N consumed 18W, 4 watts higher than the Energy Star maximum. My best guess is that various applications working in the background (even though I removed all the bloatware programs) were causing the readings to spike higher than normal. This is another example of why the Fresh Start option should be implemented across all configurations. Because of this overage, the TZ298N misses out on PC Magazine's GreenTech Approval seal. As gorgeous as the <p>Sony VAIO VGN-TZ298N</> looks, I think it's time to reevaluate the TZ series, and this particular model is especially problematic. Replacing an optical drive with a secondary SSD drive serves no practical purpose. It's the main reason why this configuration is insanely overpriced. The TZ298N also suffers from bloatware overload, which could cripple productivity down the road, particularly as this is an underpowered system. If you're intent on buying a TZ laptop, consider Sony's TZ2000 CTO (Configure to Order) option, which lets you integrate an optical drive and get rid of the unnecessary software. Check out the <p>Sony VAIO VGN-TZ298N</>'s test scores.