The ultraportable category in the U.S. has been growing at a rate at which even Asian countries are beginning to raise their eyebrows, and why not? Chips and transistors are shrinking every year, while performance continues to climb. The <p>Sony VAIO VGN-SZ370P</> ($2,080 street) is a classic example of miniaturization meeting power, as it loads a high-performance processor and discrete graphics into its 3.8-pound frame. You'll have a tough time deciding between it and the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X60 (Vista)</>. The SZ370P measures 12.5 by 9.2 by 1.0 inches, which is longer than competing ultraportables, but don't let the dimensions fool you. The scant frame integrates components virtually unheard of in a machine this size. Sony laptop screens are among the thinnest in the world, and you'll be blown away by the brilliant colors this one produces. The 13.3-inch XBrite screen is about an inch larger than the 12-inch ones found on the <p>Dell XPS M1210 (Vista)</> and the Panasonic CF-W5. As for protection, the carbon fiber material surrounding the frame looks smooth and exotic, but it isn't as tough as the metals found on the ThinkPad X60 (Vista) and Toughbook CF-W5. If you tap on it lightly, you can actually feel the frame's hollowness. Although the SZ370P's keyboard is full-size, it bends some when the keys are pressed too hard. The keys also tend to have a "mushy" feel to them; they don't have the tactile feedback and firmness of a ThinkPad keyboard. The SZ370P's touchpad is responsive, but its mouse button can get noisy at times. I think the SZ370P does a terrific job of keeping heat down to a comfortable level (I measured it at 86° F), especially in the palm rests and base area. There are two compelling pluses to the SZ370P. One is performance, which I'll get to in a bit. The other is the built-in dual-layer DVD burner, which can burn up to 8.5GB of data onto a dual-layer disc. You'd have to purchase an additional dock to get DVDs to play on the ThinkPad X60 (Vista). The SZ370P has two USB ports, but given its dimensions (9.2 by 12.4 by 1 inches, HWD), I thought Sony should've added a third. The FireWire port, VGA-Out, Ethernet, and modem ports are typical for a laptop. What's rare is that the unit integrates both a PC Card and an Express Card 34 slot. Sony even includes an Express Card memory card reader (xD, SD, MMC, MS, MS Pro) because the integrated Memory Stick–only reader might not be enough for those who have non-Sony digital cameras. A 1.3-megapixel webcam and a fingerprint reader round out the features. Sony was one of the first laptop makers to integrate a wireless cellular modem, starting with the <p>Sony VAIO VGN-T350P</>. The tradition continues with the SZ370P and Cingular's EDGE network. Although the EDGE network operates at what are considered broadband speeds, it is typically not as fast as Verizon's or Sprint's EV-DO networks. If the <p>Sony VAIO VGN-TX670P</> is any indication, you should see realistic speeds of 100 to 160 Kbps, which is far less than the 700 to 800 Kbps speeds on EV-DO networks. Sony couldn't activate the Cingular account on my test unit, so I couldn't measure the SZ370P's wireless WAN speed. You can find EV-DO connections on the ThinkPad X60 (Vista), the XPS M1210 (Vista), and the Toughbook CF-W5. Data plans for cellular wireless do not come cheap, though. Expect prices to be around $60 to $80 per month. Before I talk about performance, one thing you should know about Sony laptops is that the line refreshes quite often. My review unit, the SZ370P, is no longer available on Sony's site, but that doesn't mean you can't purchase it from other popular retail outlets. Amazon is currently selling this configuration for $2,080. You'll find other models on Sony's site that look practically identical to the SZ370P. They'll have different names (for example, the SZ491N/X, SZ470N/C). The differences are in the processor, hard drive size, and whether they have Microsoft Windows Vista. My review unit came with Windows XP Professional, ideal for those who are not ready to switch to Vista yet. Performance is the main attraction when it comes to the SZ370P. It loads a standard-voltage, 2-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo T7200. Meanwhile, systems such as the Panasonic CF-W5 and the <p>Fujitsu LifeBook P7230</> can manage to load only ultra-low-voltage processors (Intel Core Solo U1400) because of size constraints. The SZ370P comes with 2GB of RAM, which propelled its Adobe Photoshop scores past those of the ThinkPad X60 (Vista) and the XPS M1210 (Vista). Its performance on video-encoding tests is also on a par with the Lenovo and Dell systems, thanks to the dual-core processor. I was really impressed that the 58-Wh standard battery was able to last 2 hours 43 minutes in running down a DVD. Granted, that's an hour less than the ThinkPad X60 (Vista), but the ThinkPad has a higher-capacity battery (85 Wh). You can purchase an 87-Wh battery that will get the battery life into the Lenovo's range, but you'll have to pay an arm and a leg for it ($299). As if that wasn't enough, the SZ370P's most fascinating feature is that it integrates two graphics chipsets. It's the only laptop under 4 pounds to load discrete graphics from nVidia. The XPS M1210 (Vista) bundles the same nVidia card, but it weigh 4.9 pounds, and the graphics chipset eats up battery life. Sony found a solution that saves both battery life and performance, by loading both the nVidia GeForce Go 7400 and the Intel GMA 950 chipsets. To access either, there's a switch above the keyboard labeled "speed" and "stamina." The speed setting obviously refers to the nVidia card, and it makes a difference, as the battery lasts only 1:53 in it. The advantages of using this setting are smoother and faster 3D transitions in gaming, in viewing high-definition videos, and in AutoCAD work. You get about an hour more using integrated graphics or the "stamina" setting. Keep in mind that you'll need to reboot after each setting change for it to go into effect. The <p>Sony VAIO VGN-SZ370P</> is one of the best ultraportables out there, combining an optical drive, performance, and its "speed" and "stamina" settings. Sony laptops are expensive, though, so the Editors' Choice nod stays with the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad X60 (Vista)</> for its better pricing, usability, battery life, and performance. Still, the SZ series is second on my list and can ride shotgun next to the ThinkPad anytime. Benchmark Test Results Check out the <p>Sony VAIO VGN-SZ370P</>'s test scores.