Look out, Apple—there's a stylish new all-in-one desktop in town to challenge the iMac. The <p>Sony VAIO VGC-RT150Y</> ($3,999.99 list), a sleek black multimedia PC, looks just like a large widescreen monitor—at least from the front. It's got quad-core power, so you can create media with the best of the Mac-equipped artists out there, and its 25.5-inch widescreen displays HD content magnificently. Unlike the VAIO TV/PC combos of yore, the RT150Y is a professional-grade system—with a price to match. The RT150Y's centerpiece is its LCD screen, with a native resolution of 1,920 by 1,200 (16:10), which actually is perfect for creating 16:9 HD video content or viewing a two-page spread. It has a matte finish, which is better for combating glare, though some prefer to watch HD videos on glossy screens. The screen is equipped with Sony's XBrite-FullHD technology and 1080p support. It makes Blu-ray movies look almost 3D, like a spotless glass window with the real world behind it. Newly mastered movies like Across the Universe have that "realer than real" effect, while older titles like Mission: Impossible are clear enough to show their flaws. The screen is that good. A nice touch is that when you start up the Blu-ray player, the backlit Sony logo fades to dark, so it doesn't distract your viewing. The system has a 2.66-GHz Intel Core 2 Quad Q9400 processor, dual 500GB hard drives in a RAID 0 array (1TB total), and 8GB of 800-MHz DDR2 SDRAM. These components combine to make the RT150Y a multimedia powerhouse. The drives and memory are user-accessible from the back panel. However, what's most notable is its drool-worthy multimedia hardware: the ATSC/HDTV tuner; Blu-ray burner; and CF, SD, and Memory Stick readers; and HDMI input and output ports. You can hook up the system to an external HDTV with the HDMI output port and hook up a cable DVR or PlayStation 3 to the HDMI input port. This is the first system I've seen that has HDMI input as well as output. The system's 512MB nVidia GeForce 9600M GT graphics card is good enough for medium-level 3D gaming. When viewed from the side, the PC is a little chunky compared with the iMac, but in its favor the VAIO lacks the iMac's "Jay Leno chin." That's because the VAIO's tech guts are behind the screen instead of below as on the iMac. The thick sides also provide plenty of room for the onscreen and other controls, I/O ports, card readers, ExpressCard/34 slot, and the Blu-ray burner. The burner is a tray-loading model instead of a sleeker slot-loading one, but it's visible only when you view the system from the side. A stand with swivel and tilt controls is attached but can be removed so that the RT150Y can be mounted on an arm or on the wall. Make sure the system has ventilation above it: The top got a little hot (145 degrees Fahrenheit) during my 3D gaming testing, but it was a lot cooler while I was doing simple tasks like watching a Blu-ray movie. Like the iMac, the RT150Y can be set up almost completely wireless. The only cord required is the power cord. The keyboard and mouse are wireless, and Sony has included a touch pad on the keyboard, so you can surf from a reclined position without the mouse. Wireless includes Bluetooth with A2DP (stereo headphone) support and Wi-Fi 802.11a/b/g/n networking. Last but not least, the system has a built-in IR sensor, so you don't have to attach anything to use the included IR remote. Crapware was a problem with previous Sony VAIO products like the LT29U, but I'm pleased to say it's largely been reined in here. There's still the 60-day Microsoft Office trial (Small Business version), and there are still AOL (and the AOL toolbar), QuickBooks, and Napster in the Welcome Center (the first screen you see when you boot up after the initial setup screens). The rest of the software is useful, though there is a ton of it. Multimedia hobbyists may benefit from the full versions of Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements. And there are (by my count) 25 programs on the system that start with "VAIO" in the name. Most of it is useful, like the VAIO Control Center and VAIO Care utilities, but some—for example, the VAIO Survey—just make you go "Huh?" The system comes with Windows Live OneCare for firewall and antivirus duties, but it's too bad there is only a 90-day subscription. I expect more (15 months, or better yet, 2 years) for a system that costs $4,000. At least the subscription is an improvement over the 60-day security software trials found on some recent VAIOs. The RT150Y is a very good multimedia performer. Its timed scores of 28 seconds on Photoshop CS3 and 40 seconds on Windows Media Encoder (WME) are among the best among multimedia PCs I've tested. Only hyper-overclocked gaming rigs are faster. The RT150Y can play newer 3D games like World in Conflict (29 frames per second), but it struggles with Crysis (22 fps). The system's 9600M GT graphics won't give you full immersion levels of realism, but at least you can play. Besides, you can always hook up your Xbox 360 Elite or PS3 via HDMI and play that way. If there's any nit to pick with the RT150Y, it's the price. While I agree that all-in-one PCs deserve to exact a higher price for the convenience and the freed-up real estate, a tower PC with similar performance—the <p>HP Pavilion Elite m9400t</>, for one—can be had for under $1,000. Even if you pair the Elite with the color-critical HP Dreamcolor LP2480zx professional monitor ($2,499), you'll still spend $500 less than you for the RT150Y. The price disparity jumps to $2,300 if you factor in a more sedate $700 24-inch panel. If you trick out a 3.06-GHz iMac 24-inch (Penryn) with all the hardware options, it will run you $2,699. Granted, the iMac has only a dual-core processor, lacks Blu-ray, and tops out at 4GB of memory, but the hard-drive space and graphics are comparable. So are the Photoshop numbers. (WME is a little slower on the iMac.) That said, does the RT150Y merit the extra money? If you're a deep-pocketed artist who doesn't want to (or can't) switch to a Mac, the answer is a resounding maybe. If you simply want an all-in-one PC, the Apple iMac or the HP TouchSmart IQ506 are cheaper choices (though the TouchSmart's performance scores were much weaker than those of either the Sony or the iMac). If minimalist design along with performance are features you'd gladly pay a premium for, the answer is yes. Unlike the others, the RT150Y doesn't look like a PC, and for some that's worth the added expense.