There are plenty of entry-level Windows tablets on the market right now, but the <p>Toshiba Encore</> 2 Write ($399.99 as tested) refines these designs, with optimizations for handwriting, a tweak that makes for a more useful tablet experience. Toshiba takes things a step further with apps that provide superior note taking and audio recording abilities. That focus on capturing information brings out the most useful aspects of the tablet PC. It's something you can use anywhere, and have your files at your fingertips. The result is a solid Windows tablet and one of the best examples of tech-mediated content capture I've ever tested, making it our Editors' Choice for entry-level Windows tablet PCs. Design and Features The Encore 2 Write doesn't diverge much from the basic tablet design, aside from a satin-gold finish. The tablet measures 10.2 by 6.9 by 0.35 inches (HWD) and weighs just 1.21 pounds, so it's light enough to carry all day. The 10.1-inch display has an In-Plane Switching (IPS) panel and 1,280-by-800 resolution. It will only support 720p video and not full HD (1,080p) content, but in a 10-inch tablet—particularly one in this price range—that's not unusual. What is unusual is the addition of a Wacom digitizer and capacitive pen, which offers significantly better pen input than a stylus on a standard non-digitizer touch screen. In addition to having better fine-cursor control than wider fingertips, the pen offers pressure sensitivity for better handwriting and drawing. Toshiba has optimized the Encore 2 Write for handwriting and pen input, and this plays an essential role in those functions. Plenty of other tablets make claims about the handwriting capture, but the Encore 2 Write offers what might be the best handwriting experience I've had on such a device. Writing and drawing is smooth and simple. The feel of the pen is smooth, avoiding some of the usual tactile idiosyncrasies of a stylus on glass—either the too-slick feeling or the sticky sensation of some glass coatings. It's obviously not identical in feel to pen and paper, but it's comfortable enough that I didn't notice the difference. Most importantly, there is no noticeable lag between the movement of the pen and the appearance of ink on the screen, and no errant touch input from a palm or wrist brushing the glass. The built-in stereo speakers sport Dolby Digital Plus audio enhancement, but the sound quality is just so-so. The speakers project sound out from the edges of the tablet, and they are on the quiet side and prone to some distortion at high volumes. All of the tablet's ports are located on the left-hand side, where you will find a micro HDMI port, a micro USB 2.0, port, a microSD card slot, and a headset jack. As is common in these smaller Windows tablets, you will need to get an adapter to use a standard USB flash drive or other accessory, though there are drives on the market that also offer micro USB, such as the Kingston DataTraveler MicroDuo USB 3.0. The tablet is outfitted with two cameras, one forward-facing, with 1.2-megapixel resolution, the other rear-facing, with 8-megapixel resolution. The rear-facing camera is good for snapshots and video, and it's optimized for capturing text from whiteboards and handwritten notes. Snapping a picture is just as simple as ever, but Toshiba integrates this function with its note-taking apps to make using those images much more intuitive. The front-facing webcam is also decent, though images seem a little blown out, but it should be fine for Skype or Google Hangouts. Internally, the tablet offers other connectivity options, like 802.11n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0. The tablet is Miracast-enabled for streaming HDMI-quality media to a projector or TV over Wi-Fi (provided the other device is also equipped with Miracast). It also features all of the sensors that are common to tablets, like a digital compass, GPS, 3-axis accelerometer and gyroscope, allow the tablet to offer autorotation, positional awareness, and other interactivity options. For storage, there's a 64GB solid-state drive (SSD). That's not a lot of space, but it's on par with other models, like the <p>Acer Aspire Switch 10</>, and it's more than the <p>E-Fun Nextbook 10.1</> or the Asus VivoTab 8, which offer only 32GB of storage. Toshiba includes some proprietary apps that give the Encore 2 Write an edge in note-taking. The first of these is TruNote, a note-taking app that offers handwriting recognition, handwritten annotation on documents and images, and even drawing capability. All of the collected data—notes, annotations, and diagram drawing—can then also be cut and pasted into standard office programs like Microsoft Word, OneNote, and others. The other important apps are TruCapture and TruRecord, which use the built-in camera and mics for snagging images, text, and audio. TruCapture snaps images of documents, whiteboards, and other important visuals, adjusting the images for better readability and integrating the images into your notes. TruRecord does the same with audio. When recording a lecture or conversation, the multiple mics are used to parse when voices are coming from different directions, allowing the app to distinguish one speaker from another. In the app, the recording is then broken out into audio from each speaker, making it easier to search and review recorded data. All of these apps can also be used simultaneously, letting you record lectures while taking notes at the same time, for example. The tablet is preinstalled with Windows 8.1 with Bing, a free version of Windows that is offered on inexpensive tablets and laptops. Along with the operating system, Microsoft offers a free 12-month subscription of Office 365 Personal, which includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. It also comes with one year of free unlimited storage on Microsoft OneDrive. Toshiba covers the Encore 2 Write Tablet with a one-year warranty. Performance As with most of the Windows tablets available now, the Encore 2 Write is outfitted with an Intel Atom Z3735F processor, a 1.83GHz quad-core CPU similar to that used in Acer Switch 10 and the <p>E-Fun Nextbook 10.1</>. This processor is paired with 2GB of RAM, and as you might expect, the performance is good for simple uses, like Web browsing and note taking, but it will struggle with more demanding programs and tasks. For example, in PCMark 8 Work Conventional the tablet scored 1,497 points. This is slightly behind the <p>Acer Aspire Switch 10</> (1,576 points), but ahead of the <p>E-Fun Nextbook 10.1</> (1,431 points). That's not bad for this type of device, but any Atom-based tablet will have some performance limitations when compared with your average laptop. For example, the Encore 2 Write couldn't run several of our basic tests, like Handbrake and Photoshop, but that's common in this category. The tablet aced battery life, lasting 9 hours 3 minutes on our rundown test. That's long enough to take through a full day of work or school, and if used sporadically for note taking, it should carry you even further. It's also not bad compared with other tablets; the <p>Acer Aspire Switch 10</> lasted only 7:39, and the Toshiba tablet lasted hours longer than either the <p>Asus Transformer Book T200TA-C1-BL</> (5:25) or the <p>E-Fun Nextbook 10.1</> (5:52). Most importantly, the Encore 2 Write falls only a few minutes behind the Editors' Choice <p>Asus VivoTab Note 8</> (9:10). Conclusion Among Windows tablet PCs, the <p>Toshiba Encore 2 Write (WT10PE-A264)</> stands out thanks to its focus on handwriting and information capture, zeroing in on the best uses of the tablet form factor. For the student in a class, the manager in a meeting, or the journalist in an interview, these refinements to handwriting and audio recording are far better than anything else we've seen offered in this category. Combine this with solid performance and long battery life, and it's an easy pick as our Editors' Choice for entry-level Windows tablets.