the <p>velocity micro vector gx campus edition</> ($999 direct) is a (just barely) sub-$1,000 pc that boasts a feature not seen on a simple, mainstream pc before: overclocking and performance tuning. courtesy of the expertise velocity micro gained when it purchased overdrive pc, the new vector gx has a relatively "low-end" core 2 duo e6320 processor overclocked from 1.86 ghz to 3.0 ghz. that's a 61 percent improvement in clock speed! this system is an excellent choice for the student in an engineering or science program who needs some extra number-crunching power. it's also good for someone who wants to play high-powered games without shelling out over two grand for a "higher-powered" system. recently, velocity micro acquired overdrive pc, a performance-oriented system builder with a reputation for building screaming rigs that belong to the "over $5k club." overdrive is known for using its "hyperclocking" procedure to eke every last bit of performance out of high-end components like intel core 2 extreme processors. in the vector gx, the wizard of overdrive squeezes a whole bunch of extra performance out of a relatively inexpensive e6320 processor. its benchmark test numbers approach those of much more expensive (think: $2,500) multimedia systems. the whole overclocking endeavor is notable, because it was accomplished with the help of "plain old" air cooling. the vector gx uses the standard intel cooling fan, which is adequate to cool this system. other overclocked processors work best with some form of (expensive) liquid cooling. the intel core 2 duo e6320 dual-core processor is normally rated at a clock speed of 1.86 ghz, but enthusiast users and tech publications, including our sister site extremetech.com, have been able to overclock it with varying results. i've seen numbers from people on blogs and discussion groups claiming clock speeds as high as 3.96 ghz on the processor, but those showed the processor at idle, rather than doing any work that would stress it. the 3 ghz seen on my review unit is likely a compromise between speed and reliability, since a system that's insanely fast but crashes all the time is much less useful than a system that's "just" crazy fast and works day in and day out. i've had the system running benchmark tests over the course of a few days, so this vector gx seems to be pretty stable. velocity micro's warranty on the processor is three years, which is more than the one-year warranty for the rest of the components, so the company is willing to stand by its overclocked cpu. tech support is from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. monday through friday and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. saturday, which is a bit less than the 24/7 of some competitors, but at least that support is likely to be more personalized than that from the pc giants like dell, gateway, and hp. the vector gx comes in a silver version of velocity's familiar case, with a lit cooling fan under the front panel. the interior of the case is standard mid-tower. there's space for at least two more hard drives, another pcie x16 graphics card, a pcie x1 card, and a pair of pci cards. the two case fans are reasonably quiet, as is the cooling fan on the nvidia geforce 8600 gt card, but in a quiet room the stock intel cpu cooling fan can make its presence known with a high-pitched whine. it's not obnoxious, but it's there if you listen for it. i could live with it, but velocity does offer a quieter arctic cooling fan for an additional $35. i like the new velocity micro–branded multimedia keyboard and laser mouse. both are sourced from creative labs. laser mice are considered more accurate than garden-variety led optical mice (the ones with the red light underneath), and they work on more varied surfaces than plain optical mice. the laser mouse has a switch built in that lets you increase or decrease the mouse sensitivity, for gaming or for people who switch resolutions on their monitor a lot. last but not least, the internal cables have all been snipped, shortened, and routed, à la overdrive pc, to keep them out of the way, which aids cooling. this helps the vector gx achieve its high level of overclocking in an air-cooled system. let's talk about performance. the e6320, the speedy 800-mhz ddr2 memory, and the nvidia geforce 8600 gt graphics card all work together to give us numbers that we'd expect from a high-powered $2,500 multimedia system, not a more mainstream $999 one. the vector gx returned a quick (1minute 1 second) result on our windows media encoder test, which is within a few ticks of quad-core systems like the <p>dell xps 710 h2c</> and the gateway fx530xt. photoshop cs2 scores were a smidge slower at 1:44, though that's still a very good score. this is a good system for a film student and will fill the bill on other visual arts and engineering programs. as seen above, there's plenty of expansion space in the case for additional pci and pcie cards, if your coursework needs them. the vector gx's gaming prowess is very good for a $999 system. prey was somewhat playable at 1,280-by-1,024 resolution at 51 fps (i'd like to see 60 or better for smooth play), while company of heroes was quite playable at 55 fps (30 fps is the minimum for coh). predictably, both games were unplayable at 2,560-by-1,600, but if you have the money to buy a $2,000 30-inch panel on which you'd get that sort of resolution, you're likely looking at a dual graphics card system at $3,000 or more, anyway. speaking of dual cards, the vector gx will accept a second geforce 8600 gt card for an sli configuration. that makes it a decent system for the casual gamer, as well as for the more hard-core player on a budget. one system that bears direct comparison with the vector gx is the systemax vx2 b67ivu, which has a more expensive core 2 duo e6700 processor, 4gb of memory, and a geforce 7950 gt graphics card. the vx2 also has a 1tb raid array for a hard drive, which the vector gx can't match, but it's also more than double the price tag. if the vx2 is an alternative to the high-end boutique gaming system, the vector gx is a more attractive alternative to the vx2. the vector gx earns an editors' choice on the bang-for-the-buck quotient alone. it's more expensive than other mainstream systems like the dell inspiron 531 or the <p>emachines t5226</> by a few hundred dollars, but it totally outperforms them. the velocity micro vector gx is a no-brainer for those who want a bunch of performance for not a whole lot of money. since this is a special "campus edition," i don't expect velocity micro to produce a lot of these handmade systems, but i foresee quite a few lucky students (and home users) with high-performance systems that look like utilitarian systems to both the eye and the wallet. benchmark test results check out the <p>velocity micro vector gx campus edition</>'s test scores.