The latest Chromebook from Acer might be the biggest ever—physically speaking. The entire Chromebook category has evolved, with inexpensive 10- and 11-inch systems selling for less than $300. Several models bump up that price to add one or two unique features, with manufacturers rolling the dice to see which specific feature will differentiate their Chromebook enough to grab attention in an increasingly crowded market. The Acer Chromebook 15 (CB5-571-C09S) ($349.99 as tested) is betting on size, with a 15-inch model that's the largest of any Chromebook yet sold. But is a big display enough to replace the HP Chromebook 11 (Verizon LTE) as our Editors' Choice? Design First and foremost, the Chromebook 15 is big. Measuring 0.97 by 15.08 by 9.65 inches (HWD), and weighing 4.85 pounds, it's the largest Chrome-OS-based laptop yet, and it's considerably larger than the likes of the 11-inch models like the HP Chromebook 11 (Verizon LTE) (0.69 by 7.68 by 11.69 inches) or even 13-inchers, like the Asus Chromebook C300 (C300MA-DB01) (0.8 by 13 by 9 inches) or the Toshiba CB35-B3340 Chromebook 2 (0.71 by 12.9 by 9 inches). The laptop has inexpensive plastic construction, available in white or black, with a textured pattern across the lid and underside. Though not as slim and sleek as some other models, it's not unlike other budget-friendly, 15-inch laptops we've reviewed. There are several advantages to a larger size. For instance, the wider, deeper chassis allows for features like a larger display and bigger battery. The 15.6-inch screen boasts full HD (1,920-by-1,080 pixel) resolution, which is something we've seen on a few other Chromebooks, like the Acer Chromebook 13 (CB5-311-T9B0), but never at this size. The closest any model has offered in terms of size is the HP Pavilion Chromebook 14, which is essentially a 14-inch ultrabook loaded up with Google's Chrome OS. The larger chassis also means there's more room for the keyboard. In this case, that means the same full-size, chiclet-style version seen on Acer's 11- and 13-inch models, with a few Chrome-specific features like a dedicated search button and a row of Chrome functions instead of F1-F12 keys. The broader expanse of the keyboard means that Acer is able to put in two stereo speakers to flank it. The upward-facing speakers offer very clear sound with rather impressive audio. Watching the trailer for Star Wars: The Force Awakens, the John Williams theme got loud enough to fill the room, and there was no noticeable distortion or buzz, even when the sound was turned all the way up. In addition to the keyboard and speakers, the laptop has a good-size touchpad, which supports Chrome gesture controls, like two-finger scrolling, three-finger swiping, and two-finger tap instead of right click. Features One thing I was hoping for with the larger chassis was a wider port selection. I was a little let down to discover that the Chromebook 15 has the same basic ports as other, smaller models. On the right are an SD card slot, a USB 2.0 port, and a Kensington lock slot. On the left are the power connector, an HDMI output, a USB 3.0 port, and a headset jack. Above the display is an HD webcam. Inside, the device boasts 802.11ac Wi-Fi, but enhances both the speed and quality of the connection with a dual-band MIMO setup. Bluetooth 4.0 is also built in. For storage, our review unit has 32GB of solid-state memory. That's not much, despite being twice the 16GB usually allotted to Chrome-OS-based laptops. (There is also a 16GB model available for $299.) Google encourages cloud storage by offering you a free 100GB of additional Google Drive storage (good for 24 months) with purchase of the laptop. This makes a lot of sense, given that Chrome relies on Web-connected apps like Google Drive and its suite of free office apps (Google Docs, Sheets, and Slides) for productivity work, and uses apps and extensions from the Chrome Store instead of traditional local software. To sweeten the deal, Google also offers a 60-day trial of Google Play Music All Access and an offer for 12 GoGo Inflight wireless passes (available for U.S. Domestic flights only). Acer covers the system with a one-year warranty. Performance The Chromebook 15 is outfitted with a 1.6GHz Intel Celeron 3205U processor, paired with 4GB of RAM. It's the same processor Acer offers in its smaller-model Chromebooks and similar to those seen in budget-friendly Windows systems, like the HP Stream 13 (13-c020nr) and the Dell Inspiron 15 Non-Touch (3531). In a Windows laptop, this low-level processor will feel slow and sluggish, but Chrome shifts a lot of the work to the cloud, allowing Chromebooks to offer pretty good performance in Web browsing, media streaming, and app use. Now, the one possible drawback of this particular model is that the larger size may make some users more aware of the (perceived) limitations of the Chrome OS, but the overall performance isn't noticeably different than most smaller Chromebooks. We can't run our standard test software on Chromebooks, so we don't have the usual results to compare and contrast, but the Chromebook 15 is reasonably nimble while browsing the Web and streaming media. As with most Chromebooks, the weakest aspect of performance is multitasking. Once you have nine or 10 browsing tabs open, the performance slows considerably, and in some uses—like taking on multiple video streams in Google Hangouts—you'll really feel the pinch. By and large, however, these problems are common to all Chromebooks. It should be noted that the positives remain, like 6-second boot time and 5-second wake time. The one area where I expected the larger Chromebook to outshine its competitors was in battery life, due to the chassis having room for a larger battery. Lasting 8 hours 40 minutes in our battery rundown test, the Chromebook 15 does last longer than some models, like the HP Chromebook 11 (Verizon LTE) (5:31) or the Toshiba CB35-B3340 (7:04), and it's hours longer than the HP Chromebook 14 (3:36). It's not the longest lasting, however, as the Asus C300 (10:42) topped it by a full two hours. Conclusion The Acer Chromebook 15 (CB5-571-C09S) may be the largest model ever, but when you boil it down, that's really all it has to offer. Otherwise, it offers a standard Chromebook experience, just with a larger display and chassis. If you've been feeling cramped by the small size of most models, then perhaps this is the system for you. For most shoppers, however, I'd recommend looking at other Chromebooks with unique features, as there are plenty of systems in this price range that offer more compelling takes on the basic Chromebook, like the Toshiba CB35-B3340 Chromebook 2, which has a 13-inch full HD display and Skullcandy audio, or the Editors' Choice HP Chromebook 11 (Verizon LTE), which offers more mobility, thanks to wireless data.