Since their inception, netbooks have followed a simple common blueprint with definable characteristics. They generally weigh under 3 pounds, cost less than $500, and cram in basic parts—small battery, integrated graphics, and a conservative feature set. With the ASUS N10Jc-A1 ($650 street), you can throw this blueprint out the window. It's essentially a netbook on steroids, with uncharacteristic features like switching graphics, a standard six-cell battery, and an HDMI port. Though ASUS, departing from its netbook naming convention, left off the "EeePC" (a brand synonymous with netbooks), the N10Jc still has strong ties to the netbook family. Its feature set and long battery life will appeal to small-business users and anyone looking for a little more in a netbook. The N10Jc is bulkier than the HP Mini 1000 and the MSI Wind, and there are several reasons for this. It houses dual graphics and more ports and slots than your average netbook, so more wiggle room was needed inside. Add to that a standard six-cell battery and you have a netbook that is substantially heavier, at 3.5 pounds, than the competition. The MSI Wind, the 1000, and the Lenovo IdeaPad S10 are close to a pound lighter, with their slimmer designs and smaller batteries. A huskier frame and a bit of heft can take their toll on design, too. The N10Jc isn't as appealing as the Wind and the Acer Aspire One with their polished white designs. It isn't decorated with any patterns like the ones on the HP Mini 1000, either. Its shiny tan lid and black plastics are neither sleek nor minimal. The colors are conservative, as ASUS is marketing this as both a mainstream and a business netbook. The 10.2-inch CCFL widescreen is definitely a netbook characteristic, the same size as those of the MSI Wind, the Lenovo S10, and the HP Mini 1000. The 1,024-by-600 resolution is generic and not what I expected, especially at this price point. Judging by the thickness of the black borders, the N10Jc could've accommodated an 11-inch screen, thereby increasing its native resolution to 1,366-by-768. But the widescreen is bright and pleasant to work with, nonetheless. Though it isn't full-size, N10Jc's 95 percent keyboard is bigger than any offered previously, which, like those of the HP Mini 1000 and the MSI Wind, topped out at 92 percent. The mouse buttons are where they should be—under the touchpad, not adjacent to it, like those of the Acer One and the HP Mini 1000. But typing with the N10Jc is basically on a par, comfort-wise, with typing on the Wind and the S10—that 3 percent makes little difference in the user experience here. The feature set is the most impressive of all the netbooks on the market. The three USB ports, a media card reader, a webcam, and built-in Wi-Fi are commonly found in netbooks, and even the ExpressCard slot isn't unique, as you'll find one on the IdeaPad S10 and the HP 2133 Mini-Note. But the HDMI-out port succeeded in grabbing our attention. And in addition to VGA-out, this is the first netbook with two video options for streaming content such as presentations, family slideshows, or videos. It may not be necessary to have both, but they could come in handy. Also, the fingerprint reader is the first I've seen on a netbook. The 160GB hard drive is sizable, but this capacity is available on the Wind and the S10. The N10Jc's ability to handle processor- and memory-intensive tasks was on a par with that of other netbooks in the market. Since it uses the same Intel Atom processor as the 1000, the Wind, and the S10, there weren't any huge performance variations. The 1GB of memory is expandable to 2GB, but you'll have to do it yourself: Microsoft is forbidding manufacturers to put in more than 1GB of memory on a Windows XP Home Edition system. The N10Jc's SYSmark 2007 Preview Overall score of 39 is the same as the S10's and just one point shy of the Wind's. The netbook took 5 minutes 3 seconds to complete my video-encoding tests, 3 seconds longer than the Wind and the S10 took. Like other netbooks, the N10Jc is ideal for word processing, PowerPoint presentations, Web surfing, and even some light video encoding. DVD movies didn't lag or stutter while running off of a USB optical drive. On 3D and battery performance tests, the N10Jc has a significant edge over other netbooks: It's the only one so far that loads a discrete graphics chipset. In fact, it switches between two graphics chipsets: an nVidia GeForce 9300M GS (discrete) and the Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 950 (integrated). The nVidia chipset has some gaming advantages, but the level of detail is limited by the low resolution and the 10-inch screen. The other option is to use the HDMI-out port and take the gaming experience to a larger display. It drove resolutions as high as 1,920-by-1,080 (1080i) on a Proview RX-326 HDTV. Otherwise, scores tallied in 3DMark 06, Crysis, and World in Conflict demonstrate that the N10Jc isn't suitable for competitive play. High-definition movies and professional 3D-rendering applications can better take advantage of the nVidia chipset. A physical switch next to the HDMI-out port enables the switch between graphics. A reboot is needed, though, which is archaic considering that other switching-graphics technologies don't require it. Its standard 53Wh (six-cell) battery adds to the weight, but it's also double the size of those found in the Dell Inspiron Mini 9, the Lenovo S10, and the HP Mini 1000. Naturally, a bigger battery will prolong its independence from an AC adapter. Switching graphics helps, too, as integrated graphics consumes less power than the nVidia chipset. MobileMark 2007, a battery test, reported 3 hours 36 minutes with the nVidia chipset, which is over an hour more than the scores reported by the S10 and the Wind. Running on the integrated Intel chipset, battery life jumped to 5 hours 14 minutes, a huge improvement for frequent travelers. The line between netbooks and mainstream laptops blurs every time ASUS launches a new netbook. The N10Jc-A1 has some features worthy of an ultraportable: the six-cell battery, switching graphics, a fingerprint reader, and an HDMI port aren't the usual netbook fare, and its slightly higher price is justified because of these additional features. But it's branded a netbook because it runs on the Intel Atom platform and has a small screen and keyboard. If you're a sophisticated user, a small-business owner, or someone who demands more from a netbook, the N10Jc is a perfect fit. Otherwise, the MSI Wind is still the best deal on the market. Check out the ASUS N10Jc-A1's performance test results.