The BFG Phobos ($3,450 direct) takes the expensive gaming PC idea to one logical conclusion: It's like a high-powered modern sports car. You may have worked on or even built gaming PCs in the past, but now the Phobos is simply something you take delivery of, and then take out for a spin. Like that new computerized and electronics-heavy sports car, don't even think of getting under the hood: You're not going to be servicing this puppy. Both machines are made for the performance enthusiast who simply no longer wants to get his hands dirty tweaking and rooting around under the hood. While that may be appealing to the late 30-something, early 40-something gamers who are rapidly aging into this demographic, it also means that this system has a pretty narrow niche appeal. Design The Phobos is huge: It looks like a large black monolith. On the front, there's a 7-inch touchscreen, with a customized user interface for turning the system on, playing multimedia, a clock, system monitoring (temps, usage, etc.), and a performance screen. The touchscreen is driven by its own embedded Linux PC running specialized software. Basically these are all the interface options that I wanted in Microsoft's SideShow (see the Dell XPS 420, the only desktop from a major manufacturer to use SideShow), but never got from any other PC makers. The Phobos uses an embedded Linux computer (i.e. the one running the touchscreen) hooked into the motherboard to run the UI and monitor the system. That's one of the reasons why this thing is so big: it's got two full-blown computers in it. The neatest feature of the system is on the performance screen: The front panel controls all of those myriad settings on the motherboard and BIOS, so you don't have to. You can set the system for auto, the default state. The Quiet mode underclocks the components and spools down the fans for simple tasks like Web surfing or watching videos. Then there's "Max" mode, which pushes the graphics cards and CPU to the overclock presets and spools the fans up, too. It's a one-touch overclocking scenario, making it simpler than hitting delete on bootup, tweaking the BIOS, then spooling up the fans manually to keep up with the changes. Oh, and this performance screen works anytime the Phobos is on. No reboots necessary. You use the touch panel to turn the PC on, but there's also a hard power button in the pop-up panel (along with the card reader and eSATA, USB, and FireWire ports). Good thing, because there were occasional disconnects between the panel and what the PC was doing. (More on this below.) Since we're nitpicking, the glossy, automotive-style paint job on the chassis certainly distinguishes the Phobos from lesser peers, but the finish itself shows the "orange peel" ripples you get when you aren't as meticulous with your paint technique. Features Other details on the Phobos also impress. The system uses components cherry-picked from BFG, including a pair of overclocked BFG/Nvidia GeForce GTX 275 graphics cards, a BFG 1000W power supply, an Intel Core i7-920 processor with a BFG CPU liquid cooling unit, Corsair memory, a 128GB SSD, and a pair of 640GB spinning hard drives. There's even a built-in iPod/iPhone dock hidden on the top, with a connector, not just the space for a dock like on some of the old HP Pavilions. Unlike most systems that come with a few months of tech support, BFG supports the hell out of this rig. The system includes home installation and a 6-month follow-up home visit for tech support. You could of course have BFG put in updated components at that time for the cost of the parts. Home visits after the second freebie are an extra charge. And, believe me, you would want them to come to your house, since the Phobos isn't designed for user tinkering. Aside from the primary ports being on the bottom, the case really isn't built to be opened and upgraded by the end user. At first I thought this was a disadvantage, but BFG's reps assure me that this system is designed for the hardcore gamer that may (or may not) already have the knowledge to DIY the building and upgrading, but doesn't have the time or the interest anymore. So basically, older 30-something and older guys who make a very comfortable living, and who don't want to spend a whole weekend tweaking a voltage setting in the BIOS to get 5 more fps on a game like Far Cry 2. The top of the case opens up to access the iPod Dock and more ports like USB, FireWire, eSATA and a media card reader, but the case is totally not "user serviceable." Like the iPhone, the screen on the front of the system is connected via a thin ribbon cable, and if you're not prepared, you could sever it. Performance After running our usual benchmark tests on the Phobos, I can confirm that the system is as fast as you'd want it to be. It's able to run Crysis and World in Conflict smoothly (for the most part). The Phobos' Crysis score of 72 fps at 1,180 by 1,024 is smooth, while 35 fps at 1,920 by 1,200 is just getting to the point you can play it. In contrast, two other systems in the Phobos' gaming class (the Editors' Choice Falcon Northwest Talon (20 fps) and Polywell Poly 790GX3 (19 fps) can't quite play Crysis at the higher resolution. World in Conflict is smoothly playable on the Phobos at both resolutions (94 fps at 1,280 by 1,024 and 62 fps at 1,920 by 1,200). Not bad, considering that the Phobos is the top scorer at the 1,920 by 1,200 resolution games. To do better you'll have to jump up to the $5k club. Likewise, the Phobos is really good on the standard benchmark tests. It gets top scores on both resolutions of 3DMark Vantage, and PCMark Vantage. The Phobos' 3D prowess is in no doubt due to the system's overclocked BFG Tech Nvidia GeForce GTX 275 graphics cards (in SLI configuration).The Phobos lags the Falcon NW Talon a bit at the multimedia benchmark tests, but they're still impressive at 38 seconds for Windows Media Encoder and 1:12 for PhotoShop. BFG advertises multimedia-oriented versions of the Phobos, but this one will certainly do fine for multimedia hobbyist tasks like photo editing and video work. So how does the Phobos do against the competition? On the whole, it's not too shabby. It's certainly a more powerful 3D system than the multimedia and single-card gaming rigs like the Acer Aspire Predator G7710-U7790A, Dell Studio XPS 435, Gateway FX6800-01e, and HP Firebird with VoodooDNA 803. When put up against system squarely in its class, the Falcon NW Talon and Polywell Poly 790GX3, things get a little murkier. The Polywell Poly 790GX3 is a lot cheaper at $1,599, but the Poly suffers due to fan noise and a less impressive build quality (it's built into a gaming case that you can find yourself on the Internet). The Falcon NW Talon is tougher: it comes from a dedicated gaming rig company, isn't quite as fast as the Phobos on 3D, but is faster at other tasks including multimedia. The Falcon is also less expensive (but doesn't come with the concierge service). Ultimately the price per features on the Talon let it keep the Editors' Choice crown for now. The Phobos is really nice gaming rig, and it is a great 3D performer. However, its neat features and screen will really appeal to a niche within a niche: the well heeled gamer who doesn't want to get his hands nicked up. Even the multimillion dollar McLaren F1 has a hood you can open so you can marvel at the engineering. Even if you never turn a wrench on it, you can show that off to your friends. The Phobos is more like the Porsche Boxter: fun to be sure, but you won't even be looking at the sealed engine unless you're a certified mechanic. The Phobos is crazy fast, but ultimately there are other systems with a better bang for the buck.