The Dell Inspiron 546 (i546-4354nbk) ($600 list) is Dell's AMD-powered, entry-level desktop PC-in-a-box. This model, only available at Staples, is aimed at consumers who want an easy way to purchase a Dell as their second, third, or fourth PC for the house. It comes with a 20-inch, 16:9 widescreen monitor, so it's good for watching DVDs and online videos, even if it can't display full 1080p HD. It has a dual core processor to speed through editing videos and photos. It also offers decent expandability. It is perfect for the person replacing an older P4 or Pentium D powered PC that's now "too slow." It's not ideal for anyone looking to view HD videos online or work on their latest film school project (you'd need quad core for that). But as far as budget systems go, the Dell Inspiron 546 is a good middle of the road system for non-demanding users. Design The Inspiron 546 is in a case similar to that of the Inspiron 545: a mini tower desktop case with a piano-black front panel. It's compact enough to easily fit under a desk or sit on top without taking up much room. If you purchase a customized Inspiron 546 from dell.com, then you can choose from seven other colors (for $30 more), but the model we looked at from Staples is only available in the basic black. A plain, fold-down front panel hides the nine-in-one media card reader, two USB ports, and headphone/mic jacks. The back of the system looks more like a regular PC, with four more USB ports, another set of audio ports, wired Ethernet, VGA and HDMI. HDMI is a good thing, since you can use it to connect to the bundled 20-inch widescreen monitor or a larger HDTV. Features The Inspiron 546 comes with a dual core AMD Athlon II X2 215 processor, 4GB of DDR SDRAM, a largish 640GB hard drive, and DVD burner. The system's ATI Radeon HD 3200 graphics are integrated, but they are certainly capable of displaying HD video and handling light 3D rendering, as shown by the benchmark numbers below. This is a lot better than the non-HD capable Intel GMA 3100 graphics in competitors like the HP Pavilion p6234f-b. The Inspiron 546 has a PCIe x16 card slot for upgrading the system's graphics, as well as a pair of PCI card slots (one occupied by the modem), and a PCIe x1 slot. You might want to add a wireless networking card and a graphics card, but the wireless card isn't absolutely necessary for the system if your router is in the same room. The system also has space for another optical drive and an additional hard drive, but again for most users it's not a necessary upgrade. The system's 300W power supply should be able to keep up with another hard drive, an optical drive, or a moderately powered graphics card. The bundled 20-inch monitor is a decent 16:9 aspect ratio widescreen LCD with a 1,600 by 900 screen resolution. Now, this isn't true 1080p (1,920 by 1,080), but it will display 480p DVD quality video and 720p HD just fine. One nit I have with the monitor is that it doesn't have built-in speakers, like the HP's 21-inch and 23-inch monitors. DVDs and Web video looked fine on the monitor and were smooth and crisp. The system comes with Windows 7 Home Premium and is relatively free of bloatware, like most Dell systems lately. It comes with the Microsoft ad-supported version of Works, which is fine since it provides a utility most users need. It also comes with Dell software to help you navigate tech support if or when you need it. Notably absent are pre-installed versions of Microsoft Office 60-day trial and links to eBay and other ecommerce sites, which could be construed as adware. This makes the Dell more attractive than bloat-heavy systems from competitors like Gateway and HP. The 546, however, comes with a measly 30-day trial to McAfee Internet Security. This is one drawback to buying the system from Staples: if you buy direct from dell.com, Dell will throw in a 15-month subscription automatically. On the other hand, at this time, ordering the same configuration direct from Dell is about $149 more (This of course will change over time or if you have Web shopping discount codes). Performance The system did pretty well on our benchmark tests. The 546 completes the Windows Media Encoder (WME) test in one minute, three seconds and the PhotoShop CS4 test in 2:50. These are decent scores for a dual core system, in fact one minute is an excellent WME score. The system is a little bit slower than its Intel-powered competition at the CS4 test, but this is par-for-the-course for AMD Athlon systems, since CS4 works about a minute faster on similarly-clocked Intel Core 2 Duo and Pentium Dual Core systems. The system is almost three times as fast as an Intel Atom powered all-in-one nettop like the Lenovo C300. The 546's 3D performance is slow: single digit scores for both Crysis and World in Conflict, and a fair 2,084 point score on 3DMark Vantage. It's powerful enough to run the tests, however, when competing systems using Intel GMA 3100 can't even run the tests. This means you should be able to play older games (like ones built on Doom 3's id Tech 4 engine or older), but newer games built on Crytek's CryEngine 2 won't play very well on the system. Compared with the competition, the Dell Inspiron 546 from Staples is a decent PC to buy if you've only got $600 and you want some expandability. It has less bloatware and better graphics performance than its HP peers, though the HP Pavilion p6207c-b and 6234f-b both come with a the larger 21.5-inch, 1080p HD screen—a better choice if you tend to shoot HD video with your camcorder or even a Pure Digital Flip UltraHD camera, since you can see all the pixels in your image, even when zoomed in. If your hobbies include stitching together videos or editing the photos from your camera, you'll want to check out the Editor's Choice HP Pavilion p6267c-b, which has a quad-core processor, larger 25-inch screen, but, at $1000, it's also a lot more expensive. The all-in-one Lenovo IdeaCentre A600, also an Editors' Choice winner, is a non-expandable PC with a larger 21.5-inch, 1080p HD-capable screen, but it is a bit slower on some of the benchmark tests due to its slower Pentium Dual Core processor. The A600 is also more expensive by about $100. So who is the Dell Inspiron 546 good for? Casual users who want the convenience of getting solid system at their local Staples and don't want to spend more than $600. It's a solid entry-level desktop with monitor combo at an entry-level price—and sometimes that's all you need.