The Dell XPS One ($2,399 direct) easily outclasses its all-in-one competitor (and namesake), the Gateway One, and matches or surpasses the Apple iMac, which has long been the gold standard of all-in-one PCs. While the XPS One starts at $1,499, Dell sent us its top of the line $2,400 model for testing with a built-in HDTV tuner, 802.11n wireless capability, and Blu-ray drive. Although the model I reviewed is the expensive in the XPS One family, it is worth the money for the technology fan with deep pockets. Except for the graphics choice, the XPS One uses components that are competitive those found in traditionally-designed desktop tower PCs and has the benchmarks to prove it. Better still, it looks good doing it. The XPS One shows once and for all that the future of desktop PCs is in the all-in-one form factor. In its marketing materials, Dell promotes its XPS One (which will be available on Dell's web site starting this coming Monday, November 19) as an "Object D' Envy." I actually agree with this flowery characterization. The first time I saw the XPS One's angular lines, clear-colored base, and other design features, I thought "this is cool." The system takes a lot of what came before in the all-in-one category and refined it to a form factor that turns heads. The system's 20-inch widescreen sits a little low on its pivoting arm compared with its rivals. Unlike the Gateway One and iMac, it is a lot more proportional in design. There's no "chin" below the screen, nor is there anything installed above the monitor. In fact, when I first saw the prototype, I actually thought that it was some new-fangled XPS-branded monitor with built in speakers. Reality sank in when I saw the Cable/antenna jack on the back of the case. From the front, the XPS One is one of the sleekest all-in-ones I've ever seen, which is saying a lot when you consider the iMac's design. Your friends will walk in the room and ask, "Where's the rest of the PC?" Like the Gateway One, the XPS One is user-serviceable, with a back panel that slides open when you place the unit face down. The XPS One lacks the Gateway One's extra hard drive bay and enviable drop-in SATA installation. RAM is easy to get to in the XPS One, and there is an MXM graphics card slot with the ATI Radeon HD 2400 card in it. (MXM, which stands for Mobile PCI EXpress Module, is a mobile graphics interface more commonly seen in laptops). Upgrades beyond that point are still uncertain, since you can only get MXM graphics cards pre-installed in a system rather than from a third-party manufacturer. The rest of the internals are compact, just like they are on desktop replacement notebooks. As befits an all-in-one PC, the XPS One doesn't take up a lot of desk space. If you don't need a Cable TV hookup or Ethernet (which also means you won't be using the video input breakout box with IR blaster that came with my configuration), then the XPS One can match the Apple iMac and Gateway One in the "one-cable" hookup department, thanks to the XPS One's wireless keyboard, mouse and 802.11n networking. If you have the internal TV tuner like my review unit, you will have at least one, maybe two cables sticking out in back as well. (There is a cable routing clip on the foot of the PC to help with this.) I do like the external breakout box that holds connectors for S-video in, Composite-video in, audio in, and a jack for an IR blaster. This means that the XPS One will work with a cable box or external set-top box, like a satellite receiver or standalone DVR. It also means that you aren't limited to the internal tuner for SDTV. You'll still need to use the internal ATSC tuner if you want (over-the-air) HDTV, though. The XPS One's integrated two-megapixel Web cam offers face recognition (it focuses and zooms on your face). The same technology allows overlay effects like those seen on Logitech and Creative Labs webcams. Out of the box, you can give yourself elf ears or add disco lighting effects. A neat feature of the webcam is its blue LED ring, which lights up when the camera is on, letting you know when you're live, and giving you something to focus on. I like integrated webcams since they are sturdier than add-on webcams like the one on the Gateway One. The XPS One comes with Adobe's Elements Studio, which includes Premiere Elements, Photoshop Elements, and Soundbooth CS3. Elements Studio is Dell's competitor to Apple's iLife suite. While both are formidable multimedia suites, I'd still give the slight edge to the iMac in the software department. Other features like the wireless keyboard show how much thought Dell put into the XPS One's design. The wireless keyboard is truly lap-worthy, with a built-in touchpad (so you don't have to use your leg as a mouse pad), a subset of the more important MCE and playback controls like FF/REW, volume, channel up/down, and the MCE green button. The keyboard is shaped to work equally well on a desk in the 2-foot desktop environment or on your lap in the 10-foot TV watching environment. The wireless laser mouse is quick and responsive, though I wish Dell had put a "back" button on the mouse for ease of use during Web surfing sessions. This is the best MCE-oriented keyboard I've seen, including my former favorite, the Microsoft Wireless Entertainment Desktop 8000. It certainly kicks the butt of the keyboard packed in with the Sony Vaio LT19U or the Gateway One. The front panel on the XPS One is very well designed. The right side of the front bezel holds eight backlit controls for volume, playback controls, and eject. I love the design element that has a half-ring light up over the slot-loading Blu-ray drive so you can tell whether or not there is a disc inside. The controls also have audible and haptic (vibration) feedback, so you know you touched them (though in my testing, the audible beep was more noticeable than the haptic vibration). I really have to split hairs to find fault with the XPS One's design. The clear base is too shallow to hold the entire keyboard under the screen, unlike on the iMac. The keyboard will always stick out just a bit when you're not using it. Last but not least, the 20-inch monitor only has a 1,680-by-1,050 resolution. While it's sharp, you can't view HDTV in full 1,920-by-1,080 resolution—not that you'd be able to tell the difference on a 20-inch screen. Playing Blu-ray movies on the XPS One was entertaining, and the video picture will blow you away. With a 2.33-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo E6550 processor and 2GB of RAM, the XPS One was faster on both the Windows Media Encoder (1:13) and Photoshop (50 seconds) tests than its rivals. The Apple iMac came the closest on WME (1:16), and the Gateway One on Photoshop (55 seconds). These are slim margins, but a victory for the XPS One nonetheless. However, the Dell's relatively anemic Radeon HD 2400 graphics with only 128MB of graphics memory holds it back in the 3D realms. The card is fine for HDTV and light 3D tasks, but if you want a gaming PC, look elsewhere. That said, the Dell XPS One is still one of the fastest all-in-one multimedia PCs out there. The Dell XPS One is one of the most attractive all-in-one PC's I've ever seen. It looks like a monitor rather than an all-in-one PC. The Dell XPS One performs better than the competition on multimedia tasks. (That's likely to be the reason why a person would spend over two grand on a PC rather). The XPS One starts at $1,499, but comes in at almost $2,500 fully loaded. The Dell XPS One, like the HP Blackbird 002, uses design to add Wow, and just about everything about the design and features make sense. This is the all-in-one PC to beat—for now. Check out the Dell XPS One's test scores. Video Watch the Dell XPS One Video Review!