a small and nimble company, premier gaming pc vendor falcon northwest consistently manages to grab hold of cutting-edge technology way before others do. crammed with ultra-advanced parts, the falcon northwest mach v fx-62 quad ($9,995 direct, $7,595 without monitor) is a case in point: calling it a mere high-end gaming system would be an insult. like a handcrafted lotus supercar, it's staggeringly expensive but possesses pace-setting performance. the mach v showcases two brand-new technologies: an amd am2 socket athlon fx-62 processor and a quad sli graphics solution from nvidia. both these components sit in the same silver mach v case i've seen many times over the past few years. if the chassis is not to your liking, falcon nw will customize it the way you and your pocketbook wish: exotic paint, hand-airbrushed graphics, laser-cut side panels, backlit logos. since time was of the essence, i received a mach v case that was more "pedestrian," if such a word can even be applied to a pc that costs almost $8,000 without a monitor. inside the case there's lots of room for more hard drives (my mach v only has two), and plenty of air space for airflow. cooling shouldn't be a problem, though, because the amd fx-62 processor (overclocked to 3.1 ghz from 2.8 ghz) is liquid-cooled with the same sort of system i've seen on previous amd-powered mach v systems. the fx-62 is the next evolution of amd's athlon 64 processors, and because it uses the new am2 socket, it isn't compatible with previous motherboards. the system's asus mainboard is a technological wonder that's covered with i/o ports and interfaces of all types, from pcie to sata300 to ddr2 memory slots. the cooling pipes on the chipset cleverly pass heat from under the graphics cards to a heat sink over the cooling fans on the back of the case. the two nvidia geforce 7900 gx2 units are 2-pound behemoths that sandwich two 512mb geforce 7900 cards together, which in turn plug into each of the system's pcie slots. this means the mach v has the horsepower of four gpus and over 2gb of graphics memory in a quad sli configuration. at the moment nvidia allows only certain system builders to use its 7900gx2 quad sli solution, since the tolerances of power, cooling, and the bios setup are so stringent. this is a powerful argument for buying a pc like this from a system builder rather than trying the diy route. in fact, even i would be nervous about trying to build a system with $1,800 worth of graphics cards without the safety net of an ironclad warranty and dependable technical support. (see my column for more of my opinions on build vs. buy.) the mach v really raises the bar for desktop performance. it turned in a sysmark 2004se internet content creation score of 422, the first system to break 400 points. (its closest competitor is the voodoopc omen a121x extreme gamer pc, which scored an impressive 386 on this test.) with its overclocked fx-62 processor and dual 160gb, 15,000 rpm sata hard drives, the mach v swept the other multimedia tests as well. it completed my windows media encoder test in 5 minutes 14 seconds and polished off my adobe photoshop action set in a blazing 46 seconds. these are results indicative of a high-powered workstation, and i would heartily recommend the mach v to a serious graphic designer, at least one who could justify spending almost $10,000 on equipment. i'd definitely splurge on the apple 30-inch display that came with my system too, if you're comfortable burning that kind of money. where the mach v's quad sli graphics setup really shines is at higher resolutions (like the 2,560-by-1,600 native resolution of a 30-inch display), but making direct comparisons with previous systems i've reviewed is difficult, because they were tested at lower resolutions. for gaming, it's clear that the mach v is screamingly fast—but the results were mixed. other gaming systems i've reviewed have scored better on my aging 3dmark05 tests, notably the ati crossfire-powered voodoo omen a121x and the gateway fx510xl (at 2,560-by-1,600 resolution). similarly, the older falcon mach v fx-60 with 7800gtx (dual) sli and the omen beat the new mach v at the lower resolutions on my splinter cell chaos theory test. i believe this is because dual gpus are more efficient than a quad graphics card array when running at lower resolutions. also, the gateway fx510xl unexpectedly matched the mach v at 2,560 by 1,600 on this test. since a subsequent 7900gtx dual sli system i am currently testing fared better, i surmise that nvidia still needs to optimize hdr and shader model 3.0 operations for quad sli—which will probably be fixed in the next graphics driver. the mach v bested all challengers on my new 3dmark06 benchmark test and on the doom 3 tests at all resolutions. this is the type of system you want if you're playing doom 3 or future games based on the doom 3 engine. anyone buying a $7,500 system probably won't have trouble coming up with $2,500 or so more for a 30-inch widescreen lcd panel, and that's the smallest size i would recommend for anyone buying a quad sli system. the main benefit of a massively powerful graphics system like the mach v's is to show unforeseen levels of detail in 3d games. if you're just going to play games at lower resolutions such as 1,280-by-1,024 or even 1,600-by-1,200, then go for a less costly dual sli or crossfire system. the falcon nw mach v fx-62 quad has the latest technology, but it also shows the limitations of early adopting: playing splinter cell chaos theory at 2,560-by-1,600 on it shows that nvidia has its work cut out in optimizing the quad sli configuration. we're sure that one of the next driver revs will fix this, but if you're thinking about buying the mach v fx-62 quad (and have the money to do so), know that you're buying forward-looking technology that doesn't always work quite as it should. for $10,000, don't you want it to work perfectly? see how the falcon northwest mach v fx-62 quad measures up to similar systems in our gaming desktop comparison chart. benchmark test results check out the falcon northwest mach v fx-62 quad's test results .