The proliferation of netbooks and even smartphones has all but made handheld PCs like the Sony VAIO VGN-UX180P and the OQO model 02 obsolete. Their downfall is that they're expensive, severely underpowered, and have cramped, uncomfortable keyboards. On the bright side, they run a full-blown operating system and can be palmed and pocketed—almost—like a smartphone. Fujitsu thinks that there's still a market for them, though. The LifeBook U820 ($1,199 direct) is an update to the U810, retaining its handheld/convertible tablet PC form factor. Unfortunately, the so-called improvements—new keyboard layout, higher screen resolution, and GPS functionality—aren't enough to stop the bleeding. The device measures 6 by 6.7 by 1 inch, the same dimensions as its predecessor. Also like its predecessor, the U820 could have benefited from a design lesson from OQO or Apple. For one thing, there's nothing modern about the black plastic covering its exterior. Sprucing it up with aluminum or a brushed metal would've been a much better choice. And the four-cell battery that protrudes from the back nullifies what little style the U820 had left. A thinner, flatter battery, like the one found in the Apple MacBook Air and the OQO, would have given the U820 a cleaner look. The U820 is larger than the OQO and the Sony UX, though it's roughly two-thirds smaller than the size of a netbook like the HP Mini 1000. Weighing 1.5 pounds with a 5.6-inch screen, the U820 is unarguably small, but to call it pocketable is a bit of a stretch—unless you have some really deep pockets. That said, the U820 would still be a treat for frequent flyers to carry around, and it takes up very little space in a backpack. Also, like its predecessor, the U820 is a convertible tablet, functioning as both a clamshell laptop and a tablet PC. As a tablet, the screen rotates 180 degrees and is laid flat against the keyboard. The screen is also equipped with a touch panel, so you can navigate it with your fingers or use the included stylus that slides out from the top of the screen. The stylus is too small to do any serious writing; it's best used for tapping to navigate the screen. Fujitsu has increased the resolution of the 5.6-inch LED widescreen to 1,280-by-800 from 1,200-by-600. Although this improves the way you view photos, videos, and movies, text is practically unreadable. A zoom utility is included, but it isn't very intuitive to use, and lowering the resolution in the display settings doesn't seem to help. Even with perfect vision, your eyes will become strained very quickly. Another one of these so-called improvements is the new keyboard layout. The U820 adds a separate row of function keys, whereas the U810 had a row of number keys doubling as function ones. The key pitch (from letters Q to P) is bigger on the new model, improving the keyboard from 66 percent to 78 percent. While touch-typing on the Fujitsu is still better than on the OQO and the Sony UX, adding an extra row of keys compresses the overall keyboard, so individual keys feel smaller when you're typing. You won't notice the difference when thumb-typing, though. The mouse buttons and pointing stick are situated right below the screen, so that in tablet mode, the screen doesn't cover them up. Again, on this keyboard, touch-typing makes for an awkward navigating experience, but thumb-typing is okay. All in all, this reworked keyboard is a step back. The U820 is the only sub-3-pound PC that has a CompactFlash (CF) slot, a handy feature to have if you own a camera that uses this format. It also has an SD slot, so you could look at the U820 as essentially a photo off-loading station, and subsequently an uploading-to-the-Web station with the help of the built-in Wi-Fi card. For times when you can't locate a Wi-Fi hot spot but you can access an AT&T cell-phone signal, the U820, like the OQO, is equipped with a built-in modem for AT&T's mobile broadband. An Ethernet port is available, provided you use the dongle attachment. New to the U820 is its GPS capability. While this feature is neat to have, it does not replace standalone GPS devices. Booting up Windows Vista, enabling the device, attaching the antenna, and loading the maps proved to be a cumbersome process. Physically, the U820 is not a netbook. Technically, however, it runs an Intel Atom platform, so it has netbook symptoms, so to speak. The 1.6-GHz Intel Z530 processor is a recent addition to the processor line and ships with a new Intel Atom platform called "Menlow." This means that the U820 runs a different graphics subsystem than that of netbooks like the MSI Wind and the Lenovo S10, but that's not to say that it's any speedier—it's designed mostly for energy efficiency. The U820 maxes out at 1GB of memory, which is dreadful for running Windows Vista Home Premium. Netbooks like the MSI Wind and the Lenovo IdeaPad S10 felt speedier on tests because they run Windows XP and have faster (5,400-rpm) hard drives, while the U820's drive spins at only 4,200 rpm and labors under Vista Home Premium. Although the U820 failed to complete BAPCo's SYSmark and MobileMark 2007 performance and battery tests, on video-encoding tests it finished a second slower than the MSI Wind and the HP Mini 1000. It looks as if the Z530 processor is on a level with? the previous N270 processor. Still, booting into Vista was brutally slow. Web surfing was fine as long as you had a good broadband connection, and word processing, watching videos, and light photo editing (using Photoshop Elements) were, with some patience, tolerable. On paper, the Menlow platform is more energy efficient than the previous one in the U810, so battery performance should improve. When I tested the U810 back in June 2008, its four-cell battery drained in 3.5 hours, so the U820 should get at least that. With the LifeBook U820, Fujitsu had good intentions—changing the keyboard layout, upping the resolution, and adding GPS capabilities. But none of these so-called enhancements actually improved the U820. I would argue that the U810 is the better handheld PC. The U820's price point is more than twice that of the MSI Wind and the Lenovo IdeaPad S10, and its features and processing parts don't come close to justifying the price differential. In other words, you're better off with a netbook.