editors' note: as of january 30, this system will ship with vista home premium. gateway sent us a separate hard drive with windows vista home premium loaded. we swapped it out with the windows xp drive and took it for a spin to compare performance. editors' note: we updated this review on may 4 with the results of the new sysmark 2007 tests. the update is included below. buying a business laptop usually requires some shopping know-how, staying within a budget, and finding vendors that will give you the wiggle room to swap out components. the gateway nx570x ($1,350 list) offers all that in a stable design that lets you use all of the older accessories (such as transferring the modular hard drives) should you decide to upgrade to a new gateway laptop in the future. generally, i'm not crazy about gateway's bland designs, but the nx570x sports a different look, complete with a scratch-resistant cover and a brushed-aluminum interior. i wouldn't necessarily label the new cover as a breakthrough, but it's different from gateway's traditional silver designs. the sandpaper texture vaguely resembles asphalt; this rougher material prevents scratching, making it more durable for the long haul. brushed aluminum is laid out across the palm rests for a smoother and cooler feel. typically, you see this kind of material laced across the exterior, but here gateway went for a smoother, sleeker look on the inside. the 6.5-pound frame is not exactly light. you can find lighter systems with similar dimensions—such as the 5.8-pound lenovo thinkpad t60 widescreen and the 6.2-pound hp compaq nc8430—that may better suit your travel needs. the nx570x's 15.4-inch screen is matted and coated with an antiglare film. you can opt for a transflective screen (a $25 upgrade), in which the pixels are illuminated from both front and back. this is particularly good for multimedia tasks like video and photo editing. the mouse buttons, actually the same ones found on the classy gateway e-100m ultraportable, can get quite noisy. that's one of the few enhancements that shouldn't have been made. the keyboard is lovely for extensive typing, and gateway keeps the surrounding area clear of add-ons such as application keys and a biometric fingerprint reader. despite a new design, all the accessories are still compatible with other gateway laptops. this includes the extended batteries, ac adapters, modular hard drives, and optical drives. the nx570x's other features are generic for a gateway laptop. you get four usb ports, a firewire port, and an s-video port. it does have a 5-in-1 card reader (for xd, sd, mmc, ms, and ms pro) that covers most of your media formats. my configuration came with an 80gb, 7,200-rpm hard drive, but you can currently swap that out for a 200gb, 4,200-rpm one at no extra charge. a dual-layer dvd burner comes built into this system; again, it's pretty standard. the nx570x gives you the flexibility to choose from a variety of processors. the system i got loads a 2ghz intel core 2 duo t7200 and 1gb of ram, the same setup as the lenovo thinkpad t60 widescreen and the hp compaq nc8430. the nx570x outscored the latter two systems on all areas of the sysmark 2004 se benchmark tests. as expected, integrated graphics processors that come standard in the system don't run 3d-intensive applications as well as the discrete options found on the lenovo and hp configurations. battery life was quite good for a standard battery; the nx570x scored close to 4 hours. you can upgrade to one of gateway's extended batteries to squeeze more battery life out of the machine. the system comes with a basic one-year parts-and-labor warranty that includes around-the-clock phone support. gateway has a three-year deal for $149, which is not a bad idea if you're thinking long-term. update (january 30, 2007): a big thanks to gateway for sending me a vista-loaded hard drive. i took the opportunity to run a gamut of performance tests to compare the nx570x's performance under both vista and win xp. for battery life, i couldn't run the mobilemark 2007 test since it won't be available until march. instead, i ran anecdotal tests by running down the 77-wh battery with the dvd the incredibles. the four-minute difference—3 hours 59 minutes in win xp versus 3:55 in vista—is negligible, despite rumors that vista's aero interface consumes more battery power. as expected, 3d gaming was miserable no matter which operating system i used. i did find 2d games, such as second life, to be a little more sluggish in vista. there's a pretty large discrepancy in adobe photoshop script scores between win xp and vista—you'll find that photoshop is almost 20 percent faster in win xp, according to my tests. vista is a resource hog when it comes to ram. if you're working with memory-intensive applications such as photoshop and you're running vista, make sure you upgrade to 2gb of ram. update (may 4, 2007): sysmark 2007 preview gave us the perfect opportunity to scientifically measure windows xp and windows vista performance by using an industry approved benchmark. the results of the tests on the nx570x with xp versus the same laptop with vista proved once again that vista is a more resource-intensive operating system than windows xp. e-learning (web design applications) and video creation (adobe after affects 7.0 and sony vegas 7.0) favor xp over vista by over 35%. productivity (125 for xp versus 111 for vista) and 3d modeling (107 for xp versus 103 for vista) scores aren't as significantly different, but they still favor xp. the gateway nx570x uses midrange components, which might not be able to handle vista's intensity as well as higher end systems like the dell inspiron e1705 (vista). that said, xp scores trumped those of vista across the board in sysmark 2007 preview. the gateway nx570x delivers rock solid-performance scores with a design that's a little different from the company's run-of–the-mill laptops. when you factor in the price ($1,350), this business laptop should warrant serious consideration when it's time for your next major purchasing decision. see the comparison table of vista notebooks. benchmark test results check out the gateway nx570x's test scores. sysmark 2007 preview benchmark test results check out the gateway nx570x's sysmark 2007 preview test results .