With a Blu-ray drive, touchscreen, and an impressive selection of ports, the Gateway One ZX6900-01e ($1,019.99 list) justifies its price premium over $600-800 standalone desktop. Even so, a few drawbacks that keep it from outshining higher-rated systems in the mid-priced all-in-one category. It is a solid system, but given its cheap feel and bloatware, competing all in ones will offer more bang for your buck. Design The ZX6900-01e, which measures about 20 by 24 by 4 inches (HWD), looks similar to the Gateway ZX6810-01 ($1,399.99 list, ) that I checked out last year. It comes in the same glossy black chassis with a 23-inch monitor front and center, looking much like an HDTV display. The touchscreen has a glossy finish, which is good for color accuracy, but has an annoying mirror effect that casts reflections onto the screen. If you're sitting right in front of the unit, it will even reflect your face back at you while you're working on the desktop. The system has the slot-loading optical drive on its right side, and this time it's a Blu-ray player/DVD burner. This a great feature, and it addresses a serious shortcoming of the previous-generation Gateway One systems. The system comes with a wireless keyboard and mouse, which I expect at this price point, but the keyboard has a spongy feeling, not something you want when you're paying for a premium desktop. The keyboard and mouse share a tiny USB transceiver that takes up one of the system's six USB 2.0 ports. The system's ambient lighting emanating from the bezel illuminates the surface in between the user and the computer, so you can see what you're typing in a darkened room. This feature is helpful, and should be standard on all-in-one desktops. A switch on the right side of the system turns the lighting on or off. The system has an external power brick, which is apparently necessary to maintain the system's svelte lines. But slimmer systems like the Apple iMac 21.5-inch ($1,199, ) have internal power supplies, so the ZX6900-01e's power brick adds bulk to the system. The ZX6900-01e has plenty of ports in the back and on the side, including the aforementioned six USB 2.0 ports (five free), eSATA port, HDMI port, the usual audio ports, and a digital media card reader. The HDMI port lets you hook up an additional monitor for extended desktop or mirroring, giving you all the usual benefits of dual monitor use. It would have been nice if it were a HDMI input as well, since that would extend the life of the monitor once the system inevitably becomes too slow. The power button is improved; it's now on the front of the system and has the international power symbol on it, while the previous version was unmarked. Features The ZX6900-01e is ready for high-resolution photo and video enjoyment. The 1080p HD (1,920 by 1,080) resolution of the 23-inch screen can show all of the glorious pixels from Blu-ray movies or HD Internet videos. The ZX6900-01e lacks the previous generation Gateway ZX6810-01's TV tuner, but adds the Blu-ray player. I think it's a fair tradeoff, especially considering the ZX6900-01e is almost $300 less expensive. The ZX6810-01also had a 64GB SSD drive, which is a negligible option in systems like these. The older ZX6810-01 also had a 1TB data drive, the ZX6900-01e doesn't suffer too much with a smaller 640GB drive. However, you would need the extra space if you used the system as a DVR with a TV tuner. The system has Windows 7's touch-enhanced interface for use with the touchscreen. For example, the Close Window buttons are much bigger so they're easier to touch with a finger. Gateway has also pre-installed its Touch Portal user interface, which introduces touch to the new user. Touch Portal has a skin for Internet Explorer, making it easier to use with your fingers. The screen supports two-finger multitouch, which you can learn to use with the Microsoft Touch Pack. Try using two fingers to zoom in and out of the included Microsoft Surface Globe: It's pretty addictive zooming in to see your neighborhood close up. The Touch Portal takes a second to two to get working the first time you boot the system up, but after that it's not too bad. While I think touch computing is one possible future for user interfaces, the current crop of touch applications are mostly tech demos at this point. Touch screens are nice to have, but by no means are they a must-have at this time. Like all consumer-grade Gateway systems, the ZX6900-01e comes with quite a selection of bloatware. The usual suspects include Office 60-day trial, Norton Internet Security 60-day trial, and Gateway Games (by Wild Tangent). New this time around is the Best Buy Software Installer, a program that lets you shop for programs for your new PC. If the Best Buy program was the only thing on the system, I'd be happy. Hopefully this addition will trend toward the elimination of pre-installed bloatware, as HP is including similar installer programs on its systems. Dell has already moved to this online sales model. Performance As you'd surmise from the ZX6900-01e's quad-core Intel Core i3-530 processor and 4GB of DDR3-1333 memory, the system excelled on performance in our multimedia benchmark tests. It was able to complete our Windows Media Encoder test in 42 seconds (under a minute is what you're looking for), and only 1 minute 35 seconds on our Photoshop CS4 test. Likewise, the system's day-to-day performance was very good, with a 5,995 point score on PCMark Vantage. This compares well to similarly-priced systems like the Apple iMac 21.5-inch, which took 49 seconds to finish the WME test, though the iMac is a smidge faster at the CS4 test (1:32). The Editors' Choice winning Lenovo IdeaCentre B500 ($1,399 direct, ) was the fastest overall at the multimedia tests (0:38 WME, 1:32 CS4). With its integrated Intel GMA HD graphics, the system had some trouble playing 3D games like Crysis and World in Conflict, returning slow, unplayable scores. Poor gaming performance isn't too much of a concern for the HD video playing, multimedia maven that this system is aimed at. For a more reasonable $1,399, take a look at Lenovo B500; it got playable scores of 56 frames per second (fps) at Crysis and 46 fps at World in Conflict. The Gateway One ZX6900-01e is certainly an attractive touch-sensitive all-in-one desktop PC. It's a lot less expensive than its predecessor, and adds Blu-ray to the mix. However, the alternatives are more attractive on several fronts: If you want a business all-in-one PC, the Lenovo ThinkCentre M90z ($1,119 direct, ) is a good choice for a similar price and trades Blu-ray for business-friendly features like a Webcam with a cover. The big competition to this system is our current Editors' Choice for mainstream all-in-one PCs, the Lenovo B500. The B500 doesn't have the Gateway's touchscreen, HDMI port, and is around $200 more expensive, but it's got other features that make it worth the expense. However, the Lenovo B500's screen and bezel are less glossy (the screen is somewhere between matte and glossy) so there are fewer distractions when you watch TV. The B500 has much better performance at both 3D and multimedia tasks, and just feels better overall. It has a higher-build quality, a larger hard drive, much less bloatware, unique styling, and a multifunction motion-control remote. The speedy performance, larger hard drive, and better build quality will ensure that the B500 lasts longer as your primary (or secondary) desktop. The ZX6900-01e is let down by drawbacks like its bloatware and chintzy keyboard. Therefore the Gateway One ZX6900 is a relatively inexpensive all-in-one system with HD video, but the dollar savings over other alternatives don't seem to be worth it.