The Yoga is back. The Lenovo Yoga 2 13 ($999 as tested) sits nicely between the smaller Yoga 2 11 and the premium Yoga 2 Pro with its high-resolution display. The new 13-inch ultrabook-class convertible hybrid laptop gets an updated design, new hardware, and a slightly shorter name (the company has dropped the IdeaPad designation). While the new chassis design improves usability, the quality of the construction seems to have fallen off somewhat. Design The new Yoga 2 keeps the flip-and-fold functionality seen on the previous model, and the 360-degree hinge continues to be the one of the better designs in the convertible space. With the hinge, the Yoga becomes a multimode device, rather than a simple laptop. Open the display up and back to go from Laptop mode to Display mode. Flip it over to switch to Tent mode. Finally, by bringing the display all the way around, you have Tablet mode. All of these modes work as well on the new Yoga 2 13 as they did on the previous iteration. The design has been changed somewhat from the original iteration. The chassis incorporates more plastic into the construction, with aluminum across the lid of the laptop, but not the palm rest or the underside. The palm rest has a matte finish that unfortunately picks up smudges very easily, so it will look a bit grimy if you don't wipe it down regularly. A rubber bumper wraps around both the display and the keyboard edges, providing grip when in Tent Mode, and adding a bit of protection from bumps and bangs in both Laptop and Tablet modes. Folded closed, the Yoga 2 13 measures 0.6 by 13 by 8.7 inches (HWD), making it slimmer than the original IdeaPad Yoga 13, which was 0.66 by 13.4 by 8.85 inches (HWD), but a little heavier at 3.7 pounds (the first Yoga weighed just 3.4 pounds). The 13-inch display has been upgraded to 1,920-by-1,080 resolution. This is a step up from the 1,600-by-900-resolution display on the original Lenovo Yoga 13, but not as impressive as the 3,200-by-1,800 (QHD+) resolution offered on the IdeaPad Yoga 2 Pro. The full HD display strikes a happy medium, with all the resolution you need for multitasking and enjoying HD content, but without the high price and reduced battery life that comes with a higher-resolution screen. The touch-enabled display also boasts 10-finger tracking, giving you touch and gesture support in any mode. The excellent AccuType keyboard is one of the best features, providing as good a typing experience as ever. The sculpted keycaps are comfortable, and the backlight provides good visibility in the dark. In modes where the keyboard isn't in use, such as Tablet, Tent, or Display mode, the keyboard deactivates to prevent unwanted key presses. The only worrisome aspect of the design is that the keyboard is still fully exposed when flipped around into these other modes, and I have legitimate concerns about damage to the keys. This problem isn't new to this model, but it already has a solution—the business-focused Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga has a mechanism that raises the deck of the keyboard up flush with the tops of the keycaps, protecting the keyboard from potential damage. It looks like the feature hasn't migrated over to the consumer models yet. The Yoga 2 13 also boasts a clickable trackpad and support for Windows 8 gesture controls. Two built-in stereo speakers provide decent sound, with Dolby Home Theater v4 software enhancement. When turned up, however, the volume produced is underwhelming. Listening to music and watching YouTube videos during testing, the sound quality also dropped off at high volume. Features The laptop is outfitted with two USB ports (one USB 3.0, one USB 2.0), a 2-in-1 card reader (SD/MMC), micro HDMI, and a headset jack. On the right side of the system, you'll find buttons for Power, Volume Up and Down, and Lenovo's OneKey Recovery (an automatic system recovery app). Inside, the Yoga 2 13 is equipped with 802.11n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0. Early customer reviews have mentioned Wi-Fi problems in the new Yoga laptops, but we didn't encounter any issues during our testing, which included streaming media, browsing with multiple tabs open, and writing portions of this review in Google Docs. The Yoga 2 13 has a hybrid storage solution, combining a 500GB, 5,400rpm hard drive with a 16GB solid-state drive (SSD) for speedy performance and fast boot times. Lenovo includes plenty of software on the system, but most of it is useful, like 30-day trial subscriptions to McAfee Security Suite and Microsoft Office, and apps like AccuWeather, Evernote, Kindle, and Zinio Reader. There are also many Lenovo-branded apps and tools. Motion Control lets you perform simple tasks, like advancing through a playlist or turning a page with the wave of a hand, using the built-in webcam. Another is Voice Control, which lets you tell the laptop to perform basic functions, or even simply ask it a question. Lenovo has several other apps that take advantage of the different modes the Yoga can take, providing programs fit for Tablet, Laptop, or Tent and Display modes. Lenovo covers the Yoga 2 13 with a one-year warranty on parts and labor. Performance The Yoga 2 13 is similar in most respects to its sibling, the Lenovo Yoga 2 Pro—both are outfitted with an Intel Core i5-4200U processor with 4GB of RAM. The biggest difference (apart from the display) is that the Yoga 2 13 has a 500GB hard drive and 16GB Flash cache, while the more expensive Yoga 2 Pro packs an SSD for better performance. Predictably, the Yoga 2 13 fell short of its premium sibling, but also other convertible hybrids, like the Dell XPS 12, which boasts an Intel Core i7 instead of a Core i5 processor. As such, the Yoga 2 13 scored 3,761 points in PCMark 7, falling behind both the Dell XPS 12 (4,638 points), and the Lenovo Yoga 2 Pro (4,685 points). Overall, despite this gap, the Yoga 2 13 still offers good performance for most multimedia tasks, as evidenced by a decent CineBench score (2.50 points) and solid times in our multimedia tests. It finished Handbrake in 1 minute 23 seconds and Photoshop in 5:05. With Intel's integrated graphics solution—the Intel HD Graphics 4400—the Yoga 2 Pro does reasonably well with all of the standard graphics tasks, but this machine clearly isn't made for gaming. In our battery rundown test, the Yoga 2 13 lasted 5 hours 5 minutes on a single charge. This is par for the course among its peers; the Dell XPS 12 and the Sony VAIO Flip 15 (SVF15N190X) turned in nearly identical times (5:09 and 5:07, respectively). Conclusion All in all, the Lenovo Yoga 2 13 is a solid convertible hybrid laptop with good, but not stellar performance, and it doesn't quite live up to the build quality of past and current Yoga models. The convertible category is hit or miss, so we still haven't nailed down an Editors' Choice, but comparing it against the strongest competitors, namely the Dell XPS 12 and the Lenovo Yoga 2 Pro, the Lenovo Yoga 2 13 falls a bit short.