The Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 2 Pro is the follow-up to the Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13 ($999) we saw late last year. Its screen swings around so you can use the system from a variety of positions, some of which might be better for touch gaming, or for viewing videos. It's a hybrid ultrabook that mostly acts like a clamshell notebook, but can be reconfigured to work like a slate tablet while you hold it in your arms or on a flat surface. The Yoga 2 Pro's QHD+ (four times higher than 1080p HD) resolution screen makes it attractive for early adopters and graphics arts mavens, but the system is still a bit short of earning our highest recommendation. Design and Features The Yoga 2 Pro is a convertible ultrabook that has four modes—Laptop, Stand, Tent, and Tablet—when you swing the screen around from its closed clamshell, all the way around to where the screen acts like you're using a slate tablet. Our review unit has a bright silver top and bottom lid and black colored keyboard deck, screen bezel, and side edges. It looks a little like a reverse Oreo on the sideways view, but on the whole it works. The black keys on the keyboard have white lettering and are backlit for use in darkened rooms. The keyboard is extremely comfortable to use, with a very slight bowing on the bottom of each key for comfort. There's a touch-sensitive Windows key on the bottom of the screen, which is always active and helps navigation in all modes, particularly Stand, Tent, and Tablet modes. About the only quirk that remains is that the keyboard is still exposed, and keys can still be manipulated (but not register) when the system is in Tablet Mode. Other manufacturers have tried to cover the keyboard with fancier hinges like on the Sony VAIO Flip 15 (SVF15N190X) ($1,199) and Dell XPS 12 ($1,199), sliding screens like on the Sony VAIO Duo 13 ($1,399), and detachable keyboards like the one on the Samsung ATIV SmartPC Pro 700T (XE700T1C-A01US) ($1,199). The Yoga 2 Pro is lighter than the first-generation Yoga 13, but it's still fairly heavy and bulky. The system measures about 0.61 by 13 by 8.75 inches (HWD), and weighs 3.02 pounds. This is still way too heavy to use in Tablet mode full time unless it is resting on a surface. Detachable or smaller systems are really the way to get ultra-mobile. The Yoga 2 Pro improves on older Yoga and quirkier models like the Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 14 ($999) by including a 3,200 by 1,800 (QHD+) resolution screen, which matches the high end ultrabook Editors' Choice winning Samsung ATIV Book 9 Plus ($1,399) and high-end ultraportable EC Apple MacBook Pro 13-inch (2013) ($1,299). It pushes more pixels than the Toshiba KIRABook ($2,000), with its 2,560 by 1,440 resolution screen. What do these extra pixels get you? When using photo-editing programs like Adobe Photoshop CS6, the extra resolution lets you see more detail without zooming in to the photo. It also means that you can view "4K" online videos closer to native resolution (up to 4,096 by 3,072, but quoted 4K resolutions vary). Granted, these videos take much longer to download to the laptop than regular 1080p HD videos. The IPS screen on the Yoga 2 Pro is very bright, and viewing 4K videos on the screen gives you that hyper-real feeling that used to wow people when they first saw 1080p HD 10 years ago. One of the downsides of this higher-resolution screen is that when you run programs that don't automatically scale text and UI elements, those text and UI elements will look tiny on the 13-inch screen. Notable examples during our testing include Adobe Photoshop CS6, the Heaven benchmark control panel, and Internet Explorer 11 menus in desktop mode. Lenovo included a program it calls Yoga Picks, which suggests different apps for the four different screen configurations. For example the Stand mode is video viewing heavy, and Tent mode is touch-screen game oriented. Thankfully, most of the tiles in Yoga Picks are links to downloads on the Windows Store. That way, they aren't taking up precious space on the 128GB SSD. That said, there are still a handful of pre-loaded apps, including Evernote Touch, Zinio, Hightail, FilmOnTelevision, Kindle, eBay, rara music, Accuweather, Office (trial), and Dragon Assistant. Lenovo also included a bunch of Lenovo Yoga branded apps like Yoga Phone Companion, Yoga Chef, Lenovo Veriface, Lenovo Motion Control, Lenovo Companion, etc. All said and done, the system has 80.9GB free on the C: drive when you take it out of the box. The Yoga 2 Pro comes with a one-year warranty. Performance The Yoga 2 Pro comes with an Intel Core i5-4200U processor with Intel HD Graphics 4400, 4GB of DDR3 memory, and a 128GB SSD. The combo gives the system brisk, if not earth-shattering performance. Day-to-day performance as measured by PCMark 7 is fine, and 3D performance is the best we can hope for with integrated Intel HD graphics (older and casual games should play fine). Handbrake (3 minutes 53 seconds) was a little slower than other systems like the Sony VAIO Duo 13 (1:23), pointing to a slower SSD. That said, you shouldn't have any problem keeping this system around for three to five years. Battery performance was average at 5 hours 42 minutes. The MacBook Pro is the class leader at 11:26, but even the better ultrabooks will make it to almost nine hours. For instance, the Samsung Ativ Book 9 Plus lasts 8:15, and the Dell XPS 12 lasts 8:22. So it's good, but not great. The Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 2 Pro is summed up by the terms innovative hinge and brilliant screen. If those are what you are looking for, then by all means grab one and extensively try it out. That said, the current Editors' Choice Samsung Ativ Book 9 Plus is a better touch-screen ultrabook overall with a similar brilliant QHD+ screen. The Yoga 2 Pro is innovative because of its flexible usage scenarios, but its overall weight and bulkiness keeps it from getting our highest recommendation. If you can't quite give up the clamshell form factor, the Yoga 2 Pro is well worth trying out, but please hold on to your receipt if you're expecting an Apple iPad-like experience from the Yoga 2 Pro's Tablet mode.