many of us were excited by apple's switch to intel core duo processors, and even more of us were surprised when intel bumped its mobility chip up to the new core 2 duo in the months that followed. almost every single windows-based laptop manufacturer launched new systems or made some sort of product announcement because of the transition—but apple dragged its feet. when the company finally started adding core 2 duo processors to its systems in august, only the desktop imacs got the upgrade. faithful apple-laptop enthusiasts have been waiting for the apple macbook pro (core 2 duo) announcement ever since. the last couple of months have seemed like an eternity to some, but now that the macbook pro 15-inch with core 2 duo ($2,499 direct) is here on my workbench, i can confidently say that its excellent performance and features, tied to a very solid operating system, were worth the wait. the new core 2 duo-equipped macbook pro has earned the editors' choice award in the mainstream laptop arena. as expected, the macbook pro 15-inch arrived all tricked out, with the fastest core 2 duo available—the 2.33-ghz t7600. to put that in context, the macbook pro 15-inch carries the same processor as some of the most powerful, built-for-speed gaming laptops on the market today; it's the same one found in both the <p>alienware area-51 m5550</> and the editors' choice for gaming laptops, the <p>dell xps m1710</> (core 2 duo). the system also carries 2gb of ram, for those planning to load adobe photoshop cs2 and parallels desktop virtualization software—two key applications that rely heavily on system memory—and the ati mobility radeon x1600 graphics card. if you have microsoft windows loaded, you'll see some performance gains in 3d gaming because of the improved processor. since many of my benchmark tests are compatible with only the windows operating system, i installed apple's boot camp beta (free download), the software that allows users to partition a second drive and dual-boot windows xp. since my last review, boot camp has gone through a couple of revisions; it now supports more devices, allowing the sysmark 2004 se and mobilemark 2005 benchmark tests to run successfully. the macbook pro 15-inch's sysmark 2004 se overall scores were 24 percent and 20 percent less than scores posted by the <p>dell xps m1710</> (core 2 duo) and the <p>alienware area-51 m5550</>, respectively. both the dell and the alienware carry faster hard drives (7,200-rpm) and better graphics cards, though apple does offer a 7,200-rpm hard drive option to cater to performance enthusiasts. still, the macbook pro 15-inch achieved stellar speeds in both multimedia and office productivity applications. bragging rights for gaming still belong to dell, but the macbook pro 15-inch (core 2 duo) did improve over the previous macbook pro 15-inch (core duo) on a variety of gaming benchmark tests. i saw a 40 percent improvement in 3dmark 2005, 39 percent in doom 3, and a whopping 120 percent in splinter cell: chaos theory. mac os 10 still has some catching up to do with application support. not only do games perform optimally when running windows, but photoshop cs2 still runs in emulation within the mac os, so you'll notice slower speeds until the universal binary version of photoshop comes out in 2007. but that doesn't mean you can't run photoshop in windows. thanks to the macbook pro 15-inch's 2gb of ram and fast processor, my photoshop scripts finished in 1 minute 25 seconds in windows os. video editors will get the most out of the new core 2 duos, which show improvements of up to 25 percent over the previous intel core duo processors. in the case of the macbook pro 15-inch, my video-encoding tests ran their course in 5 minutes 35 seconds, edging out the alienware m5550 (5:43). my main concern with the core 2 duo processors is that they run even hotter than their predecessors. and since the first macbook pro 15-inch ran hot, how does the processor bump affect the new one? surprisingly, there isn't much of a difference. temperatures, which i measured using an infrared thermometer, topped out at 106 degrees fahrenheit. and there are still other, hotter systems out there; the alienware m5550 and the <p>winbook t231</>—both of which are windows-based—reached an alarming 114 degrees and 120 degrees, respectively. apple attributes this temperature consistency to a system management controller firmware update that dynamically regulates the speed of the cooling fans. to compensate for the core 2 duo's heat, apple has cranked up the fan speeds—which adds a little noise. but i would choose a little more noise over more heat any day. does the increase in fan speeds affect the notebook's battery life? not really. you still get about 2 hours 45 minutes (on mobilemark 2005 tests) using the same 60-wh battery. the macbook pro 15-inch's new features aren't as dramatic as the performance gains, but apple has added a firewire 800 port—and this is across the macbook pro line, not just on the 15-inch. what's more, the dvd drive now supports dual-layer burning capabilities, so you can burn up to 8.5gb of data using dual-layer discs. and what would an update be without an increase in hard drive space? my review unit came with a 120gb hard drive, but you can upgrade to a 200gb drive for $200 more. you'll also notice that the isight camera has a perforation next to it that turns green when the camera is activated; that and the firewire 800 port are about the only aesthetic changes made to the macbook pro 15-inch. as usual, you don't have to worry about viruses and spyware with the os 10 operating system, and you get some of the best bundled software out there with the ilife '06 suite. the familiar front row interface and remote, the magnetic magsafe power adapter, and your choice of a glossy or matte screen are all still there. now that the intel core 2 duo has arrived in the macbook pro 15-inch, i don't anticipate another processor upgrade for a long while—which is a relief, because now you can go out and buy the new laptop without worrying that you'll get shafted by another processor update. with the improvement of boot camp beta and third-party software such as parallels desktop, you have the option to run windows more efficiently than ever before. and the macbook pro's heat issues aren't any worse than those of windows-based laptops, so why not go with the sexiest design out there? the <p>apple macbook pro 15-inch (core 2 duo)</> offers the performance and features of the best laptops on the market. see how the <p>apple macbook pro 15-inch (core 2 duo)</> measures up to similar systems in our side-by-side laptop comparison chart. benchmark test results check out the <p>apple macbook pro 15-inch (core 2 duo)</>'s test results .