until now, i was convinced that a new core 2 duo-equipped apple macbook couldn't possibly come out this year. after all, the apple macbook pro (core 2 duo) had already been announced, in what i believed was an effort to create more separation from the macbooks. so much for that theory. one week after the macbook pro announcement, apple launched the macbook 13-inch (core 2 duo) ($1,174 direct as tested), thereby eliminating any differentiation between the two models. sometimes you just have to scratch your head and move on, i guess. despite back-to-back announcements, the move is considered perfectly timed for the holiday shopping season, and with apple's best-selling laptop by its side, a strong fourth quarter is sure to come. though i normally ask for the best model available when requesting test units, i'm not crazy about the macbook black, which is the most expensive system in the macbook line. you're basically paying a premium for the color, and since the best and most affordable model is the base configuration, i asked for the macbook 13-inch white ($1,099 direct). the macbook's signature white chassis is as much a part of a mac laptop as the apple logo. if you want to go with something other than white, well, you might as well get a pc. the glossy finish is sleek and doesn't attract as many fingerprints or smudges as would something in black; the system is easily one of the best-looking laptops in the industry. the macbook 13-inch's 5-pound frame and 1-inch thickness means it's also one of the most easily luggable. whether you're trekking across campus or fighting your way through rush hour, it's a huge advantage to have a macbook in your briefcase or backpack. the 13.3-inch screen, though it's bright, may not be large enough for media professionals. but its smaller size helps keep the laptop lightweight, and it's great for watching a dvd movie or editing your holiday photos. if you're looking for something bigger, the <p>dell inspiron e1505 (core 2 duo)</> offers a 15.4-inch widescreen that gives you enough room to watch a movie and view a photo side by side. at first glance, the macbook's keyboard doesn't appear full-size, with individual keys that are a bit smaller than those of both the macbook pro and the inspiron e1505 (core 2 duo). that said, the macbook's keys are appropriately spaced, essentially giving you the same key pitch as a full-size keyboard. basically, your typing experience will improve drastically within a short period of time. the macbook's new features aren't as dramatically upgraded as its processor, but you do get some enhancements. as i said before, i think it's best to start with the base configuration and add what you need. if you're a typical user, the standard 60gb hard drive should be plenty, but if you're an itunes fanatic or download a lot of videos, you can upgrade to a 160gb hard drive for $300. a 200gb ($400) hard drive is also available, but i'd advise against it because of its slower (4,200 rpm) rotation. the base configuration comes with only 512mb ram, which is not enough. upgrading to 1gb for $75 is really the only feature that you should definitely tack on. (if you're trying to make the most of your money, keep in mind that the inspiron e1505 (core 2 duo) comes standard with a 120gb hard drive and 1gb ram for $999.) another configuration option to consider is an optical-drive upgrade. the base model macbook comes only with a cd-rw/dvd drive—it can read dvds, but it can't burn them. i really think apple should've included a dvd burner—or made it an upgrade option within the base configuration, at the very least—but it didn't. if you intend to burn video projects to dvd, you'll have to start with the midrange macbook model ($1,299 direct). the base configuration still gives you all the goodies that are synonymous with an apple laptop—the isight camera, the front row and remote interfaces, the magsafe magnetic power adapter, and what's really the best bundled software on earth. you also get a standard one-year warranty on parts and labor and 90 days' worth of phone support, which are really all you need. for $1,099, it's not cost-efficient to tack on two more years for $249—that's about a quarter of what the laptop is worth. upgrading to an intel core 2 duo processor is probably the macbook's most significant new move. its 1.83-ghz core 2 duo t5600 cpu is plenty fast for all things computer. upgrading to a 2 ghz t7200 won't get you a whole lot more, whereas bumping up the memory will. (as was the case with the macbook pro, my performance tests will only run in windows.) loading apple's boot camp was as easy and intuitive as installing any other application. since i also have the macbook 13-inch black (with the t7200 cpu) on my bench, i was able to test both macbooks and both processors; i saw about a 7 percent difference in sysmark 2004 se performance between the t5600 and the t7200. the t5600 also happens to be faster than the t5500 that comes with the <p>dell inspiron e1505 (core 2 duo)</>. the overall performance winner, however, is the dell. the macbook uses intel's integrated graphics, as opposed to the ati discrete graphics found on the e1505 (core 2 duo). i know, comparing an apple with a dell is like doing the apples and oranges thing. but when you're talking about budget machines, it's hard not to make that comparison. the macbook's battery life doesn't change much, despite the processor bump—you'll get about 2 hours 45 minutes, according to mobilemark 2005 scores. among budget laptops, the <p>apple macbook 13-inch white (core 2 duo)</> is one of the best. it's ideal for novice users, college students, and frequent travelers who are looking for something that's easy on the wallet and looks absolutely fabulous. with the move to the intel core 2 duos all finished, the apple laptop line is now complete—and poised to give windows-based laptops a real big run for their money. see how the <p>apple macbook 13-inch white (core 2 duo)</> measures up to similar systems in our laptop comparison chart. benchmark test results check out the <p>apple macbook 13-inch white (core 2 duo)</>'s test results . video watch the apple macbook video review!