If you're a multimedia professional or a visual-arts enthusiast whose computing needs can't be met by a 1080p HD screen, the <p>Asus Zen AiO Pro Z240IC</> ($1,899 as tested) may be right up your alley. The Z240IC heralds the next wave of premium all-in-one desktops, with a bright 4K screen and the processing power to create stunning visuals. It also has a sturdy glass-and-metal construction that's easy on the eyes, with enough storage to keep multimedia programs and all of their files handy. If you really like the look and feel of the Apple iMac line, but want to stay firmly in the Windows camp, the AiO Pro is the premium all-in-one desktop to get, and it earns our Editors' Choice. Design and Features There's no doubt that the latest Apple iMac 21.5-inch with 4K Retina display and the Apple iMac 27-inch with 5K Retina display were squarely in Asus' crosshairs when the company designed the AiO Pro. Like the iMacs, the exterior is all metal and glass, with a similarly curved back panel that tapers to a sharp edge all around. Instead of light, matte silver, the AiO Pro's design consists of visible horizontal brush lines over a silver body. The slim system takes up very little space on your desk compared with a large desktop-replacement laptop or a minitower PC connected to a 24-inch monitor. A single tilting hinge connected to a metal arm supports the AiO Pro's display, and there is ample space underneath for storing the included wireless keyboard. Sounds familiar, right? On the other hand, mimicking the iMac design so closely also means that the I/O ports are in located at the back, out of reach unless you turn the system completely around. Connectors include a Gigabit Ethernet port, a pair of HDMI-out ports for attaching multiple monitors, an SD card reader, a USB 2.0 port, four USB 3.0 ports, and a USB-C port. We prefer at least a couple of side-mounted ports, as on the <p>Lenovo B50</>, because they are easier to access. Notably missing are HDMI-in ports, which would let you continue to use the 4K display after the PC's internals become obsolete. Unfortunately, you can't use the USB-C port as a DisplayPort input. The USB-C port is useful for charging laptops and connecting to newer hard drives, but those devices are still pretty rare. At 3,840 by 2,160, the 23.8-inch touch screen has a 4K Ultra-High-Definition (UHD) resolution. That is equivalent to four 1080p HD windows, tiled in the four quadrants of the display; you can have two 1080p videos playing on top of one other while still showing a tall Web browser window occupying 1,920 by 2,160 pixels. We need to point out while both have screens that are considered 4K, the 21.5-inch Apple iMac has a higher (4,096-by-2,160) resolution, using the film industry's standard for 4K. The AiO Pro uses the UHD standard set by the HDTV industry. The display has a 100-percent sRGB color gamut, which ensures accurate colors that will make your photos or videos look more vibrant. It's not quite as extensive as the DCI-P3 color space of the 21.5-inch Apple iMac, but it's certainly going to be more accurate than the screen on other all-in-one desktops like the <p>Dell XPS 18 (1820)</>. DCI-P3 comes the closest to matching the colors in the professional digital projector of your local movie theater, while 100-percent sRGB is more akin to the high-end 4K HDTVs and projectors found in a premium home theater system. In any case, the AiO Pro's screen is great for amateur and prosumer-level photographers and videographers alike. The system's six built-in speakers are loud enough to fill a midsize room, though there is a bit of fuzz in the low end at maximum volume levels. There's a wireless keyboard and mouse bundled in, both of which use an included USB dongle that fills the single USB 2.0 port. The keyboard has scalloped keys that are comfortable to use, and it includes a numeric keypad, something that the Apple Magic Keyboard that comes with the Apple iMac lacks. The optical mouse will only wake from sleep if you click either mouse button. It's easy to get accustomed to, but an annoying feature. Other wireless mice wake if you move them. The system has two drives: a 512GB solid-state drive (SSD) as the boot drive (C:), and a 1TB 5,400rpm SATA hard drive for extra data. The abundance of storage is good for photo and video hobbyists who tend to collect content they find on the Web or create themselves. The 512GB capacity for the C: drive is ideal for all your apps, Internet cache files, and everyday documents. There are a few pre-loaded applications on the SSD, however, including Flipbook, Netflix, Twitter, USA Today, and Wild Tangent. There's 16GB of system memory to support apps like Adobe Creative Cloud, and help you keep dozens of windows open and responsive while multitasking your projects. You can't open the system yourself, which means you can't upgrade the drives or memory. The AiO Pro comes with a standard one-year warranty. Performance A quad-core Intel Core i7-6700T CPU and an Nvidia GeForce GTX 960M discrete graphics card give the Asus AiO Pro the power to breeze through our multimedia and gaming tests. Its PCMark 8 Work Conventional score of 2,932 points is good, though not the best among high-end all-in-one desktops. That crown belongs to the gaming-oriented <p>MSI Gaming 24GE 2QE-014US</> (3,423 points). Ironically, the AiO Pro outperformed the MSI Gaming 24GE on the gaming tests. Thanks to its enthusiast-class Nvidia graphics, the system garnered smoothly playable frame rates at Medium quality and 1,366-by-768 resolution (77 frames per second on Heaven; 94fps on Valley), and just under-playable levels at Ultra quality at 1,920-by-1,080 resolution (25fps on Heaven; 28fps on Valley). In comparison, the MSI Gaming 24GE scored 71fps on Heaven and 84fps on Valley at Medium quality and 23fps on Heaven and 26fps on Valley at Ultra quality, and the 27-inch Apple iMac scored 62fps on Heaven and 76fps on Valley at Medium quality and 20fps on Heaven and 26fps on Valley at Ultra quality. The latter two, both of which also have discrete graphics, are close, but the AiO Pro is the overall winner on the game grid. It also dominated on the 3DMark Cloud Gate (17,879 points) and 3DMark Fire Strike Extreme (2,024 points) tests. Other all-in-one desktops with integrated graphics just couldn't keep up. Multimedia test scores are also excellent, indicating that the AiO Pro will be able to make short work of your 3D rendering, photo, and video projects. It returned a quick time of 1 minute 7 seconds on the Handbrake test, which put it just ahead of the 27-inch Apple iMac (1:15), the 21.5-inch Apple iMac (1:09), and the <p>HP Sprout</> (1:13). The Asus finished strongly on the Cinebench (675 points) and Adobe Photoshop (3:19) tests, just behind the <p>HP Sprout</> (687 on Cinebench; 3:18 on Photoshop). Conclusions The <p>Asus Zen AiO Pro Z240IC</> is an excellent high-end, all-in-one desktop with a 4K screen, and heralds the move toward higher-than-1080p-resolution displays for premium desktops. Screen quality, storage space, and performance on our benchmark tests are strong as well. Its screen is smaller and of a lower resolution than our current Editors' Choice for high-end all-in-one desktops, the Apple iMac 27-inch with 5K Retina display, which has a $100 higher base price. The AiO Pro has more storage space and is a bit faster than the iMac we reviewed, but not to the point where Asus leaves Apple in the dust. Either one is a great choice if you're a visual artist or multimedia content creator, but the AiO Pro is the one to get if you'd rather use a Windows system than a Mac. Thus, the Asus Zen AiO Pro sits alongside the Apple iMac 27-inch as our Editors' Choice for premium all-in-one desktops.