The XPS 420 ($2,098 direct, $2,378 with 20-inch widescreen LCD monitor) is the latest in Dell's line of upscale PCs. It replaces the XPS 410 as Dell's high-end multimedia desktop. This is the one you look at if you want power but feel that the XPS 720 with dual graphics cards is too much PC for your needs. The XPS 420 gives you a whole bunch of multimedia power in a decently priced package, with forward-looking technology, including a Blu-ray drive and the XPS miniView, which uses Microsoft's SideShow technology. The XPS 420 has a BTX-style case with a black faceplate and aluminum-silver colored sides. It looks like an evolution of the white silver and black XPS 410 and the Dimension 9100 boxes. Two changes are especially notable: the new XPS MiniView (a 3-by-2-inch, 320-by-240 interactive color display set in the top panel, along with a keypad to control its functions); and doors added to the front panel to hide the optical drives. All in all, it's an attractive makeover, but the unit is still undoubtedly a large tower PC. The case pops open as easily as previous high-end Dell BTX cases. The system has 802.11n wireless networking occupying one slot in the case, and the RAM DIMM slots are full. As configured, you're limited to installing three PCI cards. The XPS 420 is not really a tinkerer's case (not much room to move around in), but it's fully equipped anyway. The cables are (mostly) neatly routed for airflow, and the system is reasonably quiet when compared with other systems in our labs. The MiniView is a Microsoft SideShow display, which means you can use it to view stuff like images from your pictures folder, feeds from webcams, or even play solitaire (how else would you get used to the interface?). There's a setting that lets you monitor your computer's health (CPU usage, memory left, and the like), and Windows Media Player controls, so SideShow is somewhat useful out of the box. You can download more SideShow gadgets from Microsoft's Web page. (SideShow isn't compatible with Vista's Sidebar gadgets.) There aren't many SideShow gadgets so far, and they're mostly limited to local and Web-based information screens, but in time there should be hundreds out there. The XPS 420 is available with Dell's MCE remote with Gyration technology as a $70 option. This remote would be a 4.5-star product if it were sold on its own. It interfaces with MCE perfectly, giving you playlist navigation and track info displayed on the remote itself, while the built-in Gyration technology makes it act like a 3D mouse. (Just wave it in the air to move the cursor.) One of the XPS 420's strengths is the full copies of Adobe Photoshop Elements 6, Premiere Elements 4, and Soundbooth CS3, which are similar in spirit to the iLife suite installed on new Macs. Photoshop Elements is a basic photo library and cleanup tool; Premiere Elements lets you import, master and share videos; and Soundbooth is an audio production tool. Together they form the Adobe Elements Studio, and they help you take advantage of the XPS 420's quad-core processor and twin 320GB hard drives. (The Adobe Elements Studio also comes bundled with the <p>Dell XPS One</>; hopefully we'll see it on more Dell machines in the future.) The XPS 420 has 3GB of RAM, which is more than the 2GB sweet spot for the mainstream 32-bit version of Windows Vista. More RAM helps mostly if you do a lot of professional projects like print-quality photo editing and video editing for TV. Conversely, less memory (1GB) means that you'll be waiting an extremely long time to get any multimedia tasks done. The XPS 420 I reviewed has the Dell Xcelerator option. This is an MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 accelerator that takes the strain off of the CPU when you're transcoding video—for example, when you're shrinking it for publishing on the Internet. It slots in well with the included ATSC (HDTV)/NTSC TV tuner, so you can shrink HDTV programs to fit on your Zune or other media device. The XPS 420 comes with Xcelerator plug-ins for MCE (Windows Media Center) and the Sonic Creator 10 burning program, though it would've been really interesting if Xcelerator were optimized for DivX, Xvid, or QuickTime/iTunes. In any case, if you use Xcelerator as directed, you'll be able to transcode video on the fly while still having your PC available for other tasks, like surfing. When I try to transcode on other PCs that use only the CPU for that task, the system can become unusable because all of the processors' "work" goes into transcoding. The XPS 420 comes with USB and FireWire ports, and a 13-in-one media card reader with Bluetooth. With these, you should be able to transfer anything you shot or recorded digitally (stills, video, audio, camera-phone, and other media) onto the XPS 420's hard drive. You can share your media over the Internet, over your local network, or burn it onto CD, DVD, or BD (Blu-ray disc). Only HD DVD is missing from this group, but for the time being BD-Rs have a higher capacity (up to 50GB). This is one of the most flexible media creation and entertainment desktops out there, trumped only by a HP Pavilion m8100y equipped with a dual HD DVD-ROM/Blu-ray burner combo drive. The HP m8100y and m9040n also have media hard drive bays, which makes them great storage systems as well (for all your digital videos and photos). The XPS 420 does have DataSafe online backup, but that method is slow when you have to back up really large files. And although adequate for files like photos and text, the included 10GB online backup will fill up fast. You're also likely to fill up the 300GB of storage on the local drives. External hard drives are always an option, but the HP solution is more elegant. Speaking of external devices, you can stack a few hard drives or media players like a Zune or iPod on the top of the XPS 420's case. The top is rubberized to provide a nonslip surface and has cable management to route USB and other cables to the back of the system, where they can be plugged in. The XPS 420's Q6600 processor and 3GB of RAM keep it competitive on the multimedia benchmark tests. With a Windows Media Encoder score of 59 seconds, the XPS 420 is among the fastest multimedia PCs we've tested. It's also competitive at 57 seconds on the Photoshop test (anything under a minute is excellent), and it shines at 3D tasks. Its score of 5,645 on 3DMark06 shows that the 256MB nVidia GeForce 8600 GTS card is better at 3D rendering than the 512MB GeForce 8500 GT in the <p>Gateway DX440X</> or the HP m8100y. This is a high-powered system. The <p>Dell XPS 420</> is a forward-looking multimedia power machine, to be sure, but unless you're enamored of the idea of having the first SideShow-equipped desktop PC on your block, there are other choices out there. But if you like Dell's XPS features, like a 15-month antivirus/Internet security subscription, a fancy XPS remote, and accessory pack-ins (including a pair of good earbuds), then put the XPS 420 on your short list. Otherwise, you should aim a little higher for a bit more money—think the HP Pavilion m8100y with its media bay and dual Blu-ray–HD DVD capabilities—or save a bunch of money and shoot a smidge lower on the totem pole, as with the $1,000 cheaper <p>Gateway DX440X</>. Check out the <p>Dell XPS 420</>'s test scores.