The <p>Falcon Northwest Mach V (Core i7-2600K)</> desktop is a new unit in more ways than one. In addition to the new Intel Core i7-2600K processor (a.k.a., Intel's Sandy Bridge) and Nvidia GTX 580 graphics, the newest Mach V comes in Falcon NW's new ICON2 chassis. The ICON2 replaces the venerable ICON chassis, with new card retention built in, better airflow, and a design that will take Falcon Northwest into the next decade. The combination of improved design, new hardware, and a relatively less dear price combine to give us our latest Editors' Choice for high-end gaming desktop PCs. Design and Features The Mach V's new ICON2 case is huge, black, and imposing. It's Falcon Northwest's first new case in a while, and it's a beaut. Like the Silverstone Raven case (used as the base for the <p>AVADirect Custom Gaming PC</> ($7,122.45 direct, 3.5 stars) and <p>Maingear Shift</> ($6,399 direct, 4.5 stars), the ICON2 has the graphics cards situated vertically, so the hot air exhausts out of the top rather than out the back of the case. This makes sense from a thermal perspective, but it also means that the ports are now on the top rather than in the back. The desktop comes with a vented cover for the top of the desktop to hide the cables and connectors. Unlike the Shift, the top of the Mach V didn't have to spin internal fans too high during strenuous operations, like when running 3D tasks. The Mach V is likely to be quieter in the long run. The front of the case has the familiar Falcon logo on it, backlit with a white glow. Falcon NW includes a metallic colored insert in case you find the glow distracting. The desktop has some internal and external expansion possibilities: there are 10 USB 2.0 ports, four USB 3.0 ports, two FireWire ports, two eSATA ports, and the graphics card's two mini-HDMI ports (with bundled adapters for full-size HDMI). The desktop's single Blu-ray burner can be joined by up to three optical drives, and there's space for up to five more hard drives. There are plenty of free SATA ports to service those drives, but they are hard to get to, behind the graphics cards. Whoever upgrades your hard drives will have to snake a SATA cord from the hard drive bays to the SATA ports. You could do it yourself, but it's a little tricky to do it and keep all the wiring neat. You'll absolutely need the manual to figure out which of the motherboard's eight SATA ports is the fastest (6Gbps). Speaking of wiring, the hard drive cage doesn't have the usual SATA backplane present to ease connections: Kelt Reeves at Falcon NW says that this is because the standard backplane may have trouble keeping a clean signal for SATA3/6Gbps drives. Falcon Northwest will install the backplane at no charge if you're adamant about trading reliability for convenience. We recommend that you handle internal drive upgrades the next time you send the Mach V in to Falcon NW for other upgrades, like graphics. Speaking of graphics, the Mach V (Core i7-2600K) came with two Nvidia GeForce GTX 580 cards, but the chassis and power supply will handle more cards once the motherboards and software drivers support the extra card(s). Another notable design is that this chassis has pre-drilled holes for card retention brackets, so the heavy graphics cards won't bounce around or twist during transit. An internal partition prevents the hot air from the GPUs from reaching the area where the CPU, motherboard chips, and memory are. The desktop didn't get too hot, even when we ran our 3D benchmark tests repeatedly. Next to one of the Nvidia cards is the desktop's OCZ RevoDrive SSD array: it's essentially four 60GB SSD modules connected together in a RAID 0 array on a PCIe card. It acts as a very fast, fairly capacious C: drive. The Mach V (Core i7-2600K)'s 1TB data drive helps with storage needs. Of course you can order the desktop with even more hard drive space when you configure it to order. The Mach V (Core i7-2600K) comes with a 3-year parts and labor warranty, with one year of free shipping back and forth to Falcon Northwest. The desktop is free of bloatware, as it should be on a gaming rig. The desktop only has a few programs pre-loaded, including the Cyberlink Power DVD Ultra software for the Blu-ray drive. Performance The Mach V (Core i7-2600K) returned stellar performance on our benchmark tests. The desktop completed the Handbrake video encoder test in a quick 1 minute, 15 seconds, and the Photoshop CS5 test in 2:26. Both scores are astounding, and will make any multimedia enthusiast happy. In addition to the multimedia prowess, the Mach V (Core i7-2600K) made short work of our 3D gaming tests. It received smooth scores on all our 3D tests: Crysis (124 frames per second at medium quality, 73 fps at very high quality), Lost Planet 2 (222 fps at middle quality, 126 seconds at the High quality setting), and 3DMark Vantage (98,688 points Entry, 24,654 Extreme). Competition like the <p>Origin Genesis</> ($6,499 direct, 4 stars) and the <p>Maingear F131 Super Stock</> put up comparable numbers, but the Mach V (Core i7-2600K) was the overall winner, taking three out of the four game tests. The Mach V (Core i7-2600K) certainly edges out the <p>Origin Genesis</>, since the Falcon is $1,900 cheaper with much better performance on some tests, while keeping up with the Origin on the other tests. The Mach V (Core i7-2600K) is also quieter and a lot less complex (triple SLI and looped liquid cooling complicate the Genesis). The Mach V also improves upon the Silverstone Raven reference design that the former high-end Editor's Choice <p>Maingear Shift</> also used as its internal base. The Mach V is cooler/quieter, less expensive, better connected, and quite a bit faster, thanks to newer hardware. I'm sure the Mach V (Core i7-2600k) will be leapfrogged before a third of the year is complete, but for now, it is the über-gaming PC to buy, provided you have the means to drop almost $5,000 on a PC. More desktop reviews: HP Envy 34 Curved All-in-One (2017) <p>Falcon Northwest Tiki</> (2017) MSI Trident HP Elite Slice Digital Storm Velox (Core i7-7700K) more