Don't let the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook S6510</>'s ($2,039 direct) 14-inch widescreen fool you into thinking this is a hefty business laptop. At 4 pounds, it's definitely an ultraportable. You can reap all the benefits of a true road-warrior laptop without compromising screen real estate. Even better, no performance sacrifices were made to lower the weight. This configuration loads a standard-voltage 2.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo T7700 and 2GB of RAM. All you have to do is convince your business manager that this laptop is worth the two grand price tag. Very few PC makers can pull off a 4-pound laptop without skimping a little on screen size. The only sub-4-pound laptop I can think of with a 14-inch screen is the Panasonic Toughbook Y7 (stay tuned for our review). I'm accustomed to seeing 13-inch screens on laptops in this weight class, like that on the <p>Dell XPS M1330</>, so it's a real treat to see the S6510 accomplish something few laptops can do. One thing Fujitsu did to trim the weight is to use LED technology behind its 14-inch screen. LED backlights, instead of fluorescent tubes, are the new wave in mobile computing. This technology allows for thinner screens and better power-saving capabilities. The sheer brilliance of the screen is a result of Fujitsu's CrystalView technology, which can also be found on the Fujitsu Lifebook T2010, a convertible tablet. Color levels and image detail, when playing any form of media, appear richer and sharper than on a matted screen such as the one on the <p>Lenovo ThinkPad T61 Widescreen</>. You will, however, have to put up with some glare when working with the S6510 under a fluorescent lamp. Even though the keyboard is full-size, the keys are a little mushy and don't offer the same resistance and comfort levels as those found on the ThinkPad T61 and the Dell M1330. At least the mouse buttons and touchpad were responsive. I found the speakers to be a little weak coming from a 14-inch laptop, but this machine is catered to businesses that normally don't pay much attention to sound quality. You do have four application keys above the keyboard that can be customized to quickly launch any piece of software installed on the laptop. The system offers three USB ports and a FireWire port. An S-Video jack can be found on the front bezel, next to the microphone and headphone jacks. You have your usual set of legacy ports that include VGA, Ethernet, and modem ports. The most important part of the equation is the built-in dual-layer DVD burner, yet so you can watch all the latest DVD flicks and install software and offload storage data whenever you have to. An integrated 1.3-megapixel Web cam will help you stay in touch with loved ones on the road, as well as videoconference with work colleagues. Its 120GB hard drive is average for a business laptop. Fujitsu put in adequate security measures by including a fingerprint reader, SmartCard reader, and TPM (Trusted Platform Module). The only thing it doesn't have is cellular broadband, which is important if you're on the road most of the time and require a ubiquitous wireless connection. Otherwise, you can use the built-in WiFi. As of January 20, 2008, the <p>Fujitsu LifeBook S6510</> is officially Energy Star 4.0 compliant, upgrading from an Energy Star 3.0 rating. What's the difference? Not much, except for two fundamental changes: An 80 percent efficient power supply is a requirement, and using idle mode as a metric (instead of standby mode) under the operating system is the new standard for 4.0. I performed my own measurements using a Kill A Watt meter and found that the S6510 emits 25 watts during idle state, 11W over the Energy Star requirement. The readings were taken with the system coming straight out of the box, so all the resident software remained intact during my tests. On the other hand, uninstalling the Norton Internet Security suite and cranking down the brightness by half brought the readings down to 20W. By comparison, the HP Compaq 2710p consumes only 12W during idle state, thanks to its ultra-low-voltage processor and a dimmer screen. The S6510 also meets the EPEAT Silver and RoHS standards. Putting in low voltage processors is a common thing that vendors do to trim the weight, not only because they have a smaller footprint, but they also decrease energy consumption. On the flip side, as system resources are being taken up over time, a less powerful processor is ill-equipped to keep up. Well, that's not the case with the Lifebook S6510. The 2.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo T7700 is the kind of processor found in desktop replacement laptops. The 2GB of RAM is absolutely necessary to run an operating system like Windows Vista Business. It looks like Fujitsu did a good job with air circulation, as temperature readings (using a Fluke infrared thermometer) measured only 85 degrees Fahrenheit across the base and palm rests. Performance scores were impressive across the board, though its SYSmark 2007 Overall scores were lower than those of both the <p>Dell XPS M1330</> and the <p>Lenovo Thinkpad T61 Widescreen</>, possibly due to the T61 Widescreen and XPS M1330's use of discrete graphics. The only difference to the S6510 is that it doesn't have discrete graphic options. Still, most business users probably won't need dedicated graphics anyway. Battery life is pretty decent for a system this size. MobileMark 2007 tests showed you can get about 3 hours 45 minutes out of its 63Whr battery. Better yet, you can swap out the DVD burner for an additional 6-cell battery that will put it in the 6-hour range, according to Fujitsu. With new advances in technology, the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook S6510</> is able to fit a 14-inch screen into a 4-pound frame. It's compelling for business travelers who like to do multiple things at a time on their screens. And with all that power running underneath the S6510, you can multitask and be energy conscious at the same time. The only thing that stands in your way is whether or not there is enough room in the budget for a $2,000 laptop. Check out the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook S6510</>'s test scores.