Editors' Note: This version of the <p>Getac F110 </>has been replaced. Read the review of the current Getac F110. The <p>Getac F110 </>($2,899, as tested) is a rugged tablet that runs either Windows 7 or 8 Pro. It's designed for extreme use, whether that's in a police cruiser, armored military vehicle, mounted to a dune buggy searching for oil in the desert, or bolted to a snow mobile monitoring ski slopes in the Rockies. Innovative features, like a dual-battery system, help keep the tablet running through the day, and MIL-SPEC certifications keep the system (and your data) safe from the elements. Editors' Note: This version of the <p>Getac F110 </>has been replaced. Read the review of the current Getac F110. Design and Features The <p>Getac F110 </>is touted as one of the thinnest and lightest rugged tablets on the market. Its exterior, which measures 0.96 by 12.5 by 8.25 inches (HWD), never lets you forget that this beefy machine is made to take a beating. It weighs 3.11 pounds, which much lighter than the five-to-seven-pound behemoths of a few years ago. Raised cushions on the corners protect the back of the system from drops, and keeps it flat on most level surfaces. It's a bit chunkier than our Editors' Choice for rugged tablets, the <p>Panasonic ToughPad FZ-G1</>, but not my much. The <p>Getac F110 </>is vented for cooling, but this doesn't affect its standard ratings for MIL-STD 801G and IP65, which govern protection against impacts, blowing dust, vibration, water spray, salt fog, and other environmental concerns. A walk outside in a rain storm is no problem for the Getac, though underwater work will require other protection. The power adapter jack has a submarine-hatch-like cover to keep out foreign materials. The single USB 3.0 port, headset jack, and HDMI port all share a locking access hatch. There's a space for an expansion slot, which can be fitted with an optional barcode reader, serial port, Ethernet, microSD reader, or a USB 2.0 port. A row of hard buttons on the front include power, a shutter release for the front-mounted webcam and rear-mounted camera, a customizable function button, and volume controls. A Windows button below the screen is a prequisite for Windows 8-compatibility. The 11.6-inch capacitive touch screen has a relatively low 1,366-by-768 resolution, which is high enough for Windows 8. To put that into perspective, the <p>Panasonic ToughPad FZ-G1</>, our current Editors' Choice (EC) for rugged tablets, has a 1,920-by-1,200 resolution, and the EC for Windows 8 slate tablets, the <p>Microsoft Surface Pro 2</> has a 1,920-by-1,080 resolution. Both will show more information than the F110 (such as more cells in a spreadsheet) at the same zoom level. The F110 has a bright, 800-nit screen, like the Panasonic FZ-G1. An anti-glare layer over the screen helps tame reflections. The five-point capacitive multitouch screen is the main interface with the F110, which means you can type on the virtual, on-screen keyboard with one hand if you need to, or fill out quick forms when polling customers for market research. The tablet comes with a durable capacitive stylus, which stows in a molded indent in the back panel. Our review unit came with a digitizer (optional) behind the screen, and would be a better choice for people who need to sketch on the F110, as the capacitive-only input has poor palm rejection. The front and rear cameras are where you'd expect them to be, but the Getac Camera software has a quirky user interface. To switch from the front to the back camera, you'll have to go into the settings menu, a process that will take at least five steps. A switch on the main screen would have been more convenient. Aside from the quirky software, the five-megapixel rear camera was slow to save pictures in full resolution mode, taking a few seconds between each shot; saving 640-by-480 resolution shots were much quicker. Photo quality is adequate for the contractors and insurance adjusters who will use the camera most often. The F110 has two identical 24Wh removable batteries on the back of the system behind a door with locking tabs. You can swap one out for a freshly charged spare while the other battery is still powering the tablet, so you can keep computing without shutting down. This is a plus, and can keep the system going all day and all night, as long as you keep recharging the spares. Fully charged batteries last about seven hours and forty minutes for a full day's worth of computing. This is 1.5 hours longer than the Panasonic FZ-G1, but only about twenty minutes longer than the Surface Pro 2. A 128GB solid-state drive (SSD) is the standard storage capacity, with a 256GB option for configure-to-order systems. We noticed that the tablet had a relatively tight 74.9GB free when we took it out of the box (it came installed with Windows 7 Professional). A sticker on the back of the system indicated that the F110 can be configured with Windows 8 Pro, which includes the downgrade to Windows 7 Professional for compatibility with your older applications. Other features on our review unit include optional Gobi 4G LTE modem, SiRFstarIV GPS (optional), and standard 802.11ac along with Bluetooth 4.0. The Gobi 4G radio is unlocked, so you will have to acquire a SIM card and mobile broadband service on your own. A dock on the bottom panel lets you hook up an external antenna for wireless radios. The F110 comes with a three-year, bumper-to-bumper warranty that covers everything, even accidental damage. Performance The tablet has an Intel Core i7-4600U processor, 4GB of memory, and that 128GB SSD. They help the system to achieve good scores on the PCMark 7 test (4,600 points), slightly ahead of the Panasonic FZ-G1 and way ahead of competitors using older technology like the <p>Xplore Wildcat 5 M2</>. On the multimedia tests like Handbrake, CineBench, and Adobe Photoshop CS6, the F110 is competitive with the Surface Pro 2, winning two of the three tests. The F110 is faster overall than the Panasonic FZ-G1 in terms of raw multimedia computing, but both are still in the same ballpark. See the benchmark chart for more speeds and feeds. If you need to equip a squad of users running repetitive forms like traffic reports or market research questionnaires, the <p>Getac F110 </>is well-suited to handle the slings and arrows of outdoor computing. It has battery life that can last almost all day, plus an innovative battery swapping capability that can extend power to almost-constant use for days. That said, the <p>Panasonic ToughPad FZ-G1</> holds on to its Editors' Choice award for rugged tablets due to its higher resolution screen, standard digitizer, and more compact chassis, all for $500 less.