For the <p>HP Pavilion Elite m9200t</> ($1,999 direct), HP pulled out all the stops in packing hardware into its latest high-end multimedia desktop. It improves on the Elite m9040n with a newer processor, an HD optical drive, and more powerful graphics. Its dual ATSC/HDTV tuners are a plus for the video junkie, and the system has all the major input and output ports, save HDMI. It comes with HP's Personal and Pocket Media removable-cartridge hard-drive bays. The m9200t is for hard-core multimedia buffs who don't want to bother with building or upgrading systems by themselves. It's quite a price bump from the previous model, but since it's a build-to-order system, you can eliminate or downgrade some components to save money. Not that you would want to—the configuration I reviewed has most everything you could dream of in a high-end multimedia system. The m9200t's case is identical to that of the m9040n, retaining the black-and-silver styling, lit-up HP logo on the front, and the front panel doors that hide the input and output ports, optical drive, and the Personal and Pocket Media Drive bays. The top panel, with its rubberized surface and cable routing (for docking your MP3 player—okay, iPod) are still there. The m9200t comes with an Intel Core 2 Quad Q9450 processor (one of the new Yorkfield-based chips), 3GB of DDR2-800 memory, a large (750GB) hard drive, and Blu-ray writer/HD DVD player combo drive. This is one of the drives that burn Blu-ray discs and read (but do not write to) HD DVD discs in addition to burning CDs and DVDs. The read-only feature is actually a good thing, given that the HD DVD format is for all essential purposes dead: You'll be able to take advantage of closeout sales of HD DVD movies to play on this drive, but it needn't concern you that the supply of HD DVD recordable discs on the market will soon dry up. You can edit your home videos on the m9200t, upload them to YouTube or other video-sharing sites, and then burn them to Blu-ray discs or DVDs. When it's time to archive your photos and videos, this desktop has bays that fit HP's two external hard-drive formats. True to their name, the HP Pocket Media Drive cartridges are small, while the HP Personal Media Drive media are larger in size and capacity. The drives themselves cost extra, from $150 for a 160GB Pocket Media Drive to $320 for the 1-terabyte Personal Media Drive. When it comes time to back up, the "easy backup" button on the front panel acts like the OneTouch button on Maxtor drives: It starts a backup session with the included backup program. When you're dealing with irreplaceable videos of your family or friends, backup is a must. The system's twin built-in TV tuners will let you record and view ATSC over-the-air (OTA) HDTV and analog cable and OTA standard-definition TV. Though technically supported by the tuner hardware, QAM unencrypted cable tuning in Windows Media Center is currently unavailable. (QAM tuners enable direct reception of digital cable without the need for a set-top box.) QAM support is planned for a future MCE software rev (which will be available only in new PCs). An ATI CableCARD tuner for encrypted/premium cable is available as a $170 upgrade, replacing one of the dual tuners in case you need to connect your cable directly to the m9200t. The system also has a built-in IR receiver for the Windows Media Center remote, as well as jacks for IR blasters if you need to put the system in a closet and/or control an external cable or satellite box. Last but not least, the system has built-in 802.11 draft-n and Bluetooth wireless, so you don't mind so much that the interior is cramped and has little room for expansion. This is one of the more versatile multimedia PCs out there, and after ordering it you can literally do your thing as soon as you pull it out of the box. The m9200t's quad-core processor plus ample RAM, hard drive space, and high-end nVidia GeForce 8800GT graphics all worked together to give the m9200t very good benchmark scores. The system completed the SYSmark 2007 Preview test with an Overall score of 163. The m9200t raced through the Windows Media Encoder test in only 40 seconds, which is excellent considering earlier quad-core AMD and dual-core Intel systems finish in a minute or more. Likewise, its score of 25 seconds on the Photoshop CS3 test is one of the fastest times I've seen. This is an excellent multimedia creation system. The m9200t also can play games, as its passing scores on the Crysis and World in Conflict tests demonstrated. The m9200t can just about play Crysis smoothly at 1,280 by 1,024, with a frame rate of 58 frames per second. Likewise, it was rock steady playing WiC at the same resolution at 59 fps. Predictably, both games were unplayable at 1,920 by 1,200 resolution with all the settings turned on—but there has yet to be a system that can play at that level. As is all too common these days, crapware (also known as bloatware) abounded. On this machine I found the WildTangent "My HP Games," AOL, EarthLink, NetZero, Juno, and links to eBay and Snapfish. My take is that if you really wanted all these "free" programs, you'd download them yourself. While many people may want AOL or "My HP Games," those who don't will have to uninstall them, and even the best uninstall programs tend to leave detritus all over your hard drive. On the plus side, the system comes with a 15-month subscription to updates for Norton Internet Security 2008. This is a good thing, since all Windows PCs need virus protection, and everyone could use protection from phishing, spam, and malware. The m9200t offers quite a bit more in features and performance than the <p>Dell XPS 630</> and <p>Gateway FX7020</>, and has a higher price tag to match. From a strict performance perspective, you get more from the <p>Falcon Northwest FragBox 8500</>. But the m9200t offers more features, such as the Blu-ray burner/HD DVD combo drive, dual TV tuners, and dual Media Drive bays, albeit for a bit more than the cost of the FragBox. If all you want is the power, go for one of the cheaper systems, but if you want a system with all the bells and whistles and with few compromises, check out the Pavilion Elite m9200t. Check out the <p>HP Pavilion Elite m9200t</>'s test scores.