When you're spending less than $400, there are certainly limits to what you can expect from your PC. That said, you'll likely be pleasantly surprised by the <p>HP Pavilion Slimline s5120f</> ($399.99 list), a compact system that still manages to pack plenty of power for its price point. The s5120f is a small-form-factor PC for the home, and it works equally well in the dorm room, since it takes up very little space. This desktop boasts a "real" Athlon X2 processor, a step above the Atom CPUs you'll find in nettops around this price point. Plus the s5120f has a full version of Vista Home Premium (as opposed to XP, the nettop OS of choice), 4GB of memory, and a decent-sized hard drive. It's a good choice for a second PC in the house, though it could be your primary system if all you need it for is basic multimedia tasks, like listening to music or even light video editing. Design The s5120f sits in a case slightly larger than those of its predecessors, like the s3600t. While the other desktops were no larger than a hardcover Webster's Dictionary (roughly 11 by 4 by 13 inches (HWD)), the s5120f measures approximately 12.5 by 4.5 by 16 inches (HWD). HP did this to save a little money in production, since the larger case can accommodate a regular ATX motherboard instead of the more expensive customized motherboards needed for smaller cases. Thus the system comes in under $400, which puts it in the same price league as nettops and budget desktops. There are a few other changes: HP's Pocket Media Drive bay is omitted, plus the power supply is bumped up to 220W (older Slimlines had sub-200W PSUs). There's also more room in the case; the components aren't as sandwiched together as they were in older models. This helps cooling airflow inside the case. Though the s5120f's ATX motherboard is a standard size, it still has some perplexing connector issues. There's a spot that could hold two DIMM slots, but these are absent in order to leave room for the optical drive next to it. That I can understand. However, the motherboard has a free PCI slot and a PCIe x1 slot, both of which are unusable in the current case. Call them the slots to nowhere; there's no room for a modem, TV tuner, or anything else you might want to install there. Plus the power supply blocks access to those slots. Kind of weird, but I guess the generic motherboard (also used in other HP PCs) helps to keep costs down. On the bright side, there's a PCIe x16 slot free so you can install a half-height graphics card or maybe a wireless networking card in the PCIe x1 slot occupied by the modem. Features Like other HP systems, the s5120f has good build quality, meaning the case feels sturdy and well-made. Since HP moved the optical drive eject button to the front panel (instead of having it on the actual drive door itself), it's a lot easier to open the drive, a standard DVD burner. As mentioned above, the Pocket Media Drive bay isn't present anymore, which means you'll need to use an external drive if you run out of space on the s5120f's 500GB internal drive. I would've liked to have seen an eSATA or FireWire port for faster transfers, but the six included USB ports will do the job. The system has the usual amount of bloatware on it (for an HP): There are ads for NetZero, eBay, and HP extended warranties. The Norton Internet Security subscription is woefully short at only 60 days. However, there is a ray of sunshine on the bloatware front: While HP still includes a Microsoft Office 60-day trial, it is not installed. This is a boon for users who have their own copy of Office, because they don't have to worry about uninstalling the trial first. It also means you can easily ignore it if you're an OpenOffice or Google Docs fan. The system also comes with HP's MediaSmart software, a floating interface for playing your media like viewing videos, listening to music, etc. Performance And it's media that the s5120f is best-suited for with its 2.7-GHz AMD Athlon X2 7750 processor and 4GB of RAM: The system completed our Windows Media Encoder test in 1:05, and the PhotoShop CS4 test in 2:42. That is a lot faster than any nettop (if it could load the programs in the first place), and even speedier than our current Editor's Choice, the <p>Compaq Presario CQ5110f</> (with 1:09 on Windows Media Encoder and 3:32 on CS4). Like just about all the systems in this price range, the s5120f can't run our 3D benchmarks, and the half-height PCIe x16 slot is unlikely to allow any upgrade to improve 3D performance. This is a system for 2D tasks, but it executes them quickly. The simple act of watching web videos is smooth on the s5120f. Even HD videos from YouTube, which tend to give nettops trouble, look good. So, right off the bat, the s5120f is a better choice for users than nettops like the <p>MSI Wind CS120</> and the ASUS Eee Box, unless you need the extreme space saving these nettops provide. The HP is also a better performer than eMachines' ET1161-03 and EL1300G-01W, systems that are both in the same price range. The only recent system that could give the s5120f pause is the current (and reigning) Editors' Choice, the <p>Compaq Presario CQ5110f</>. It is built around similar parts (an Athlon processor and integrated graphics), but it's bigger, so it can hold a full-sized graphics card, and has more capacity in the PSU to power that card. Though s5120f has a 6-in-1 media card reader, more memory, and more hard drive space, it's slightly more expensive than the CQ5110f and the limitations of its case really hold it back. Ultimately for the budget buyer the CQ5110f is a better choice, so it retains its Editors' Choice pick. That doesn't mean the <p>HP Pavilion Slimline s5120f</> is a bad choice for the budget PC buyer. It has decent build quality, is compact, and the price is right at under $400. That money buys you a PC that isn't hobbled performance-wise, and has many good points. Then again, it's still plagued by bloatware and limited internal expansion. If you're in the market for a budget PC under $500, at least check out the s5120f: It may be the PC you're looking for.