editors' note: we have updated this review with results of our testing under microsoft windows vista premium. this year may well just herald the rise of the touch screen. we've seen previous attempts at integrating a touch screen in an all in one pc, notably from pelham sloane and mpc, but those systems were more suited to dedicated duties like home automation, store kiosks, or receptionist terminals. now hp brings the touch screen concept back to all-in-one desktops with its new <p>hp touchsmart iq770 pc</> ($1,800 direct), which is being unveiled at this year's ces. is it a successful all in one, or a mere waystation on the information superhighway? click on, dear reader. the touchsmart iq770 is a tour de force from one of the innovators in the pc industry. hp has built a pc that competes with the current benchmark system, the apple imac, while designing a pc that goes beyond a simple "me too." the iq770 follows the more hp standard dark color scheme, and has a slot below the screen (more on that later). unlike the <p>sony vaio vgc-ls1</> and imac, the iq770 isn't all built into the screen, but in this case that's not a major drawback. the iq770 is built around a mobile 1.6ghz dual core amd turion 64 x2 tl-52 processor, and as such has amd's live! media center enhancements. those live! enhancements (like those of intel's viiv) still aren't fully realized yet, but at least they are there. the 2gb of ddr2 ram and 320gb of hard drive space give you a lot of space to play with, which a big plus now that the system is running the microsoft windows vista premium os.(there's also slot for the new pocket media bay drive, which is notebook-sized and increases the iq770's storage in 80gb and 160gb increments.) speaking of vista premium, the iq770 runs the new media center interface with the new hp smartcenter front page. using smartcenter on the touchscreen gives the iq770 a kiosk feel, enhancing the interactive computer experience. using smartcenter is easy: just touch the "home" key on the front bezel of the pc, and smartcenter boots up. smartcenter leverages the touchscreen, making the iq770 a centralized information appliance. it displays the local weather, tv, music, even solitaire (hey, how else are you going to teach your family to use the touch screen?). the hp photosmart touch app basically turns your pc into a digital photo print station, kind of like the one you see at your local drug store. put a hp photosmart a510 or a610 compact printer behind the screen, and the photos slide out of the slot under the screen. very cool stuff. (you can use any other photo printer with the iq770, but larger printers like the epson picturemate won't fit behind the screen, and thus won't spit their photos though the handy-dandy slot.) hp advisor gives you a quick health check of your pc, and lets you access hp's online help and troubleshooting features. last but not least, hp's smartcalendar can replace the corkboard you use as a message center in your kitchen: pluses include the ability to leave voice messages, but the electronic post it notes on the computer still require more steps than a physical paper one. all of these features are built into vista's new media center interface, so ideally you'll hardly ever have to go back to the standard windows desktop interface. the "base" of the system holds a snazzy multi-card reader for your digital cameras' data cards, a slot-mounted dvd drive with physical playback controls (a big plus, you don't need the remote to play a dvd or cd), inputs for cable/antenna, an astc/hdtv antenna. and fm radio antenna, usb, digital audio out, and connectors for your camcorder (both analog s-video and digital firewire). with all these connectors, i forgive hp for not building everything into the screen. the touchscreen works very well: it has the right amount of responsiveness and sensitivity, with or without the included stylus. unlike an old-school xp tablet pc, the stylus is just an inert piece of plastic. you could conceivably use a pda stylus or even a wooden chopstick to manipulate the screen. one tip for new users: make use of the included touchscreen version of solitaire, you'll be comfortable with the touchscreen in no time. speaking of the screen, the 19-inch widescreen (1,440 by 900 resolution) is crisp and clear with both 480p dvd and 720p hd wmv, tv, and divx content, but the lack of a hd-dvd or blu-ray optical drive is a drawback. hopefully, later this year when hd-dvd/blu-ray combo drives become commonplace, the next version of the touchsmart pc will have one. cablecard is another glaring omission, but hopefully the iq770 will be able to interface with an external usb or firewire reader. one final design note: hp integrated the mce remote's ir sensor into the front bezel of the iq770. this is just where the sensor should be on a tabletop all in one pc. using an external ir receiver on an all in one desktop is just dumb. yay, hp! benchmarking the iq770 was an interesting affair: sadly, the system's 1,440 by 900 screen is an uncommon resolution, so we had to use 1,280 by 800 resolution instead of the standard 1,280 by 1,024 we're using for most desktops. therefore, we have to be careful when comparing performance with other systems running at different resolutions. that said, the iq770's display is great for atsc-based hdtv viewing. i just wish hp had put a hd-dvd drive in the system. the iq770's mobile-based processor and graphics gave it good performance scores. its discrete nvidia geforce go 7600 graphics has both its own 256mb of memory and shares 271mb of the system memory. this results in a good 3dmark06 score (2296) and a mediocre and semi-playable company of heroes score (22.7 fps). company of heroes should be more playable at lower resolutions, but not at 1,280 by 800. thankfully, the iq770 is a much better 2d performer: its 2:10 time at our new windows media encoder test and 1:38 at our photoshop cs2 test show that the iq770 has enough power to run the multimedia apps you expect of it. the iq770 will certainly handle most of the tasks you throw at it. (note: we couldn't test this system with windows xp, as hp built this all-in-one desktop specifically to run vista. thus, proper xp drivers are not available for this system). is the hp touchsmart iq770 an imac killer? in a word: maybe. in its current incarnation the iq770 certainly outclasses the former windows-based editors' choice the <p>sony vaio vgc-ls1</>. there are some upgrades i'd like to see in the future, mainly hi-def video like cablecard and hd-dvd. still, the iq770 is a great all in one, and an effective use of the new technologies in windows vista. benchmark test results check out the <p>hp touchsmart iq770 pc</> see how the <p>hp touchsmart iq770 pc</> measures up to similar systems in our comparison chart.