Gaming desktops don't always have to be huge towers or small-form-factor (SFF) PCs with replaceable graphics cards. Case in point: MSI is expanding its all-in-one (AIO) gaming desktop line with its Gaming 24GE 2QE-014US ($1,699.99 as tested). It ticks off the requisite component checkboxes with an Intel Core i7 processor, a mainstream, enthusiast-level Nvidia GeForce GTX graphics, and a solid-state drive (SSD) for quick bootups and app launching. This third-generation model shows a lot of promise, and it's certainly fast enough to play games at full HD resolution. Design and Features The Gaming GE24 is a bit smaller (just under 24 inches) and less expensive than MSI's previous 27-inch Gaming All-in-One AG270 2PC-006US and AG2712A series gaming AIO desktops. The system is built into the monitor chassis, which is in turn mounted on a stand with a tilting hinge, similar to the look of the Apple iMac or the Acer Aspire Z. The previous MSI models have simpler easel-style supports. The system measures 16.75 by 23 by 7.5 inches (HWD) and weighs about 21 pounds, so it will fit neatly in a cramped dorm room or bedroom. The bright, 23.6-inch, In-Plane Switching (IPS) display offers a 1,920-by-1,080 resolution and a 10-point touch screen. Game and movie visuals are clear, and the IPS panel gives you a wide viewing angle. That's an improvement over the older MSI AIO gaming systems, which only look good when viewed from head on. Sound from the speakers are good enough for watching movies in a quiet room, but we recommend a gaming headset if you're in a large or noisy space. We watched multiple trailers and videos using the built-in Blu-ray drive, and we have no qualms about recommending the system as a compact entertainment unit. Connectivity is a mixed bag. The SD card slot and the two USB 3.0 ports are conveniently located on the left side of the chassis. However, the other I/O ports are on the back and are oriented vertically, which makes it a challenge to plug in any cable, unless you're a contortionist. They include an Ethernet port, a headset jack, an HDMI-in port, an HMDI-out port, a microphone jack, a USB 2.0 port, and two USB 3.0 ports. The placement of the headset and microphone jacks is particularly problematic, because gamers will want them to be accessible at a moment's notice. On the plus side, the Ethernet port connects to a Killer E2200 gaming optimized LAN card, and the HDMI-in port lets you plug your Playstation 4 in so you can use the system as a monitor. A wired keyboard and USB mouse are responsive, but the backlit keyboard has an odd layout, with a finicky space bar and an L-shaped European Return key. I was constantly hitting the Backslash key instead of Return, since I'm used to the long, rectangular American Return key. The keyboard has a key to switch the backlight color, so you don't have to use a software utility to do so. Upgradability is non-existent, but that's to be expected, since the system is so compact. There's plenty of space for downloaded movies on the 1TB data drive, but not a lot on the 128GB boot SSD. Some games just won't let you install their files on the data drive, so 128GB can get cramped fast unless you rotate your active game list. You can't add to the system's 16GB of memory, but it's more than adequate for any 3D game. You can certainly keep a game or two active in separate windows, while simultaneously surfing the Web and communicating via Google Chat. An eclectic software mix is a hallmark of MSI Gaming desktops and laptops. In particular, the system has the Splashtop Streamer app and the XSplit Gamecaster app installed. Splashtop Streamer will let you remotely control another Mac, phone, PC, or tablet in your home. You could theoretically start a game on your tower PC in one room, then continue to play it on the Gaming 24GE in another room. Splashtop is free in-home, with a $16.99-per-year subscription for remote control out of home over the Internet. XSplit Gamecaster is a game broadcasting utility, which lets you record or stream your game play over a variety of social media networks, like Dailymotion, Twitch, and YouTube. eSports is a growing category, and Gamecaster can help you establish a good online audience. The rest of the pre-loaded software is pretty standard: Evernote; Nahimic (audio enhancement); and a bunch of Xbox Live games like TapTiles. The system comes with a one-year warranty, which is par for a midrange gaming PC. Performance Gamers used to disparage the idea of a gaming all-in-one because the compact design prevents upgrades to a new graphics card later on. If you upgrade graphics yearly, you'll still want to buy a tower or SFF gaming system, but many gamers will be satisfied with the power of the Intel Core i74720HQ and Nvidia GeForce GTX 960M graphics in the Gaming 24GE. It ran our Heaven (71 frames per second) and Valley (84fps) gaming tests smoothly at Medium-quality settings, and just-under-playable levels at Ultra-quality settings (23fps in Heaven; 26fps in Valley). You should be able to find a satisfactory setting at full HD resolution, with some tweaking. It performed better than the <p>Lenovo B50</>, our Editors' Choice midrange all-in-one desktop, which scored 8fps in Heaven and 9fps in Valley at Ultra-quality settings. That said, other systems like the <p>Maingear Vybe (2015)</>, our top pick for midrange gaming desktops, the <p>Asus Republic of Gamers G20 (G20AJ-US009S)</>, the <p>Digital Storm Eclipse</>, and the <p>Lenovo Erazer X510</> were still a lot smoother on both game tests, as well as on the 3DMark Cloud Gate and Fire Strike Extreme tests. The older MSI AG270 was a smidge faster on the 3D tests, thanks to its slightly more powerful Nvidia GTX 870M graphics. The Gaming 24GE's performance is therefore adequate, but it still lags behind most of the traditional midrange gaming PCs. The system was quick on everyday-performance tests, like PCMark 8 Work Conventional (3,423 points), Handbrake (1 minute 19 seconds), and Adobe Photoshop CS6 (3:19). Again, that lags behind the gaming systems listed above, but that's still excellent, thanks to the Core i7 processor and SSD. It outpaced the <p>Lenovo B50</> by a significant margin on the PCMark 8 (2,923) and Photoshop (4:23) tests. This system won't feel slow for many years. Conclusion The design of an all-in-one desktop PC seems like a good choice for gamers, since it will fit in a cramped dorm room or a closet-size den. The MSI Gaming 24GE is one of only a handful of specialized gaming AIO systems, but we see the potential for others to join the party. It's also going to give you a better game experience than mainstream AIO desktops like the <p>Lenovo B50</>, especially at full HD resolution. However, if you're a hardcore gamer looking to spend less than $2,000, a separate gaming PC like the <p>Maingear Vybe (2015)</> will still give you smoother animation and gaming experiences overall. The MSI Gaming 24GE is certainly a good AIO desktop if you're just starting out with gaming. Call it a step in the right direction.