The first time you do something, it's an experiment; the second time, it's a refinement. You're no longer trying to see if something works, you're actively making it work better. Case in point: the <p>MSI AG270 Gaming All-in-One (2PC-006US)</> ($1,999.99). The first iteration of MSI's gaming all-in-one desktop, the MSI AG2712A, seemed like more of a one-off proof of concept, putting gaming-grade components into an all-in-one chassis just to see if anyone would want to buy it. Now, less than a year later, the gaming all-in-one returns, with a fuller feature set, better hardware, and a combination of price and performance that puts it alongside the best midrange gaming desktops, like the Editors' Choice <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</>. Design Unlike most gaming PCs, which only offer variations of the basic tower design, the MSI AG270 features a 27-inch display, with all of the internal components built into the monitor chassis. The screen offers 1,920-by-1,080 resolution and is covered with an anti-reflective coating that eliminates glare. MSI aims to reduce eye strain by including anti-flicker technology and reducing blue-light emissions. The result is a display that, while not the best big screen we've seen on an all-in-one, looks good, with crisp details, vibrant colors, and deep blacks. My only complaints are that the anti-glare finish reduces the horizontal viewing angles and that a 27-inch display practically begs for a higher resolution than 1080p. The screen also offers touch capability, letting you make the most of Windows 8.1 and its gesture commands. A frameless design, with edge-to-edge glass over the display, lets you take advantage of the entire touch screen, and allows gestures like swiping in from the edges of the screen to cycle between apps and to pull up menus. The monitor and components share the same chassis, a large, black-and-red housing that sets flush against the surface of your desk or table, and leans back, with a large kickstand supporting it from behind. This stand lets you adjust the angle of the chassis, letting you position the display for comfort. If you want to put the all-in-one onto a wall, the kickstand can be removed, and four VESA mount holes on the back allow standard mounting. Below the display is a speaker bar that runs the full width of the chassis. Inside are two 5-watt Yamaha speakers with independent subwoofers, providing very good sound. The volume is full, there's no buzz or reedy distortion at high volumes, and the bass is fuller than I expected. The AG270 comes with MSI-branded gaming peripherals, a wired gaming keyboard and mouse—the bundled peripherals that came with the previous MSI AG2712A were both wireless, but clearly weren't made for gaming. The keyboard and mouse included with the newer model, however, are much more gaming-friendly. The keyboard has stouter construction and a multicolor backlight, though it still has silicone dome key switches and a fairly shallow key travel. The mouse is alright for gaming, with an ambidextrous design and software for basic customization. Unlike a tower-based gaming PC, the MSI AG270 uses an external power supply, meaning a big, heavy brick, much like the ones used in gaming laptops. It's not a problem by any means, but it will make for a slightly more cluttered gaming setup. Features On the left side of the chassis, you'll find two USB 3.0 ports and a multiformat card reader (SDXC/Memory Stick/MMC). A vertical, tray-loading DVD SuperMulti drive lets you install games from a CD or DVD, but this model doesn't have the Blu-ray burner we saw on the last iteration. Blu-ray-equipped models are available, but in different configurations and price points. On the back of the system are four USB ports (two USB 2.0, two USB 3.0), a VGA port, and two HDMI ports (one output, one input). The HDMI input allows the all-in-one to be used as a monitor for another PC or game console, letting you use the system as the center of your media and gaming setup and extending the usable life long after the system ages. For network connectivity, the AG270 is outfitted with Killer-brand gigabit Ethernet, which is built specifically for gaming systems—online gaming is prioritized by the networking hardware for superior performance. Additionally, the system is equipped with 802.11ac Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0. You'll have plenty of storage space, thanks to a combination of a spacious 1TB hard drive and two 128GB solid-state drives (SSDs) paired in RAID 0. That 256GB of combined SSD storage is a real boon to performance, and should offer faster bootups and retrieval than even hybrid drives like the 1TB drive in the <p>Lenovo Erazer X510</> (which only has an 8GB flash storage cache). You will see larger storage capacity in the <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</> (2TB hard drive with 120GB SSD), but the performance should be very similar. While most gaming systems eschew extraneous preinstalled software, there is a fair amount of stuff already installed on the all-in-one. Some of these are gamer-friendly and useful, like XSplit Gamecaster, which lets you capture and record your gaming sessions or stream them directly to sites like Twitch, YouTube, and UStream. Other apps, like WildTangent Games (a selection of casual-game trials), MusicMakerJam, and Cookbook won't be much use. MSI covers the AG270 with a standard one-year warranty. Performance While a funky all-in-one design might turn heads and even convince a few shoppers to buy based on looks alone, gaming PCs are all about performance. Thankfully, the system has it where it counts, with a fourth-generation, 2.4GHz Intel Core i7-4860HQ quad-core processor and an Nvidia GeForce GTX 870M graphics card. These represent significant improvements over the third-generation CPU and AMD GPU used in the MSI AG2712A. The updated hardware brings with it performance that is right in line with other midrange gaming systems we've currently reviewed. The AG270 did well, thanks to its Core i7 processor and 16GB of RAM. In PCMark 8 Work Conventional, the it scored 3,476 points, putting it ahead of the <p>Acer Predator AG3-605-UR39</> (3,128 points), but behind the Lenovo X510 (5,005 points). In Photoshop CS6, the MSI AG270 finished in 3 minutes 9 seconds, a bit slower than the <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</> (2:48), the <p>Acer Predator AG3-605-UR39</>, and the <p>Lenovo Erazer X510</> (with the latter two scoring 2:54), but it did outpace the previous MSI AG2712A (3:35) by a healthy margin. The bump up to an Nvidia Geforce GTX 870M graphics card with 3GB dedicated VRAM also led to solid graphics and gaming performance, scoring 16,612 points in 3DMark CloudGate and 2,139 points in 3DMark FireStrike (our extreme graphics test). These scores, coupled with solid frame rates in our gaming tests, are clear indicators that the MSI AG270 will handle old and new titles with equal aplomb. Conclusion The <p>MSI AG270 Gaming All-in-One (2PC-006US)</> is one of the few all-in-one desktops on the market with real gaming chops. It's a solid all-in-one PC in its own right, but the addition of graphics performance and several gamer-friendly features makes the MSI AG270 is a uniquely compelling buy. For superior performance, you'll still want a tower-based PC, like our Editors' Choice <p>CyberPower Zeus Mini</>, which offers better graphics and performance for a similar price. But if you just want an all-in-one that won't buckle when an AAA title comes along, this system will get you up and running.