The <p>Sony Vaio VPC-J116FX/B</> ($1,099.99 list) is an attractive, mid-priced all-in-one desktop PC with a 21.5-inch multitouch screen. It's Sony's entry into the growing all-in-one desktop category. The system's pricing and features pits it against the entry-level, $1,199 iMac. The VPC-J116FX/B (part of Sony's Vaio J Touch line) has a lot going for it—including great design, two-year Costco warranty, and Blu-ray—but some stumbling points in features keep it from contention. Take a look at it if you're in the market for a reasonably priced, space saving PC, but there are other, better choices out there for a bit more money. Design The new Vaio J Touch desktop PCs look very similar to the Vaio L Touch systems (of which we reviewed the <p>Sony Vaio VPC-L117FX/B</> ($2,000 list, )). Essentially, the 21.5-inch J series is the little brother to the 24-inch L series. It has the same high-quality black plastic construction, so it looks like a HDTV you would put on the dresser in your bedroom. The VPC-J116FX/B has the same 16:9 screen aspect ratio as the L series, and the same open wide slot below the screen for stowing your keyboard. There aren't any buttons on the front of the unit, only on the top and sides. The 21.5-inch screen is two-finger touch-sensitive, so you can perform gestures like pinch to zoom. The system comes with a wireless keyboard and mouse, and both fit the minimal theme of the desktop. The VPC-J116FX/B has an external power brick, which somewhat mars the system's slick design. In comparison, the Editors' Choice <p>Apple iMac 21.5-inch (Core i3)</> ($1,199 direct, ), has an internal power supply that keeps its sleek lines intact. The VPC-J116FX/B has 4 USB 2.0 ports, one FireWire/i.Link port (i.Link is Sony's trademarked term for FireWire), and a digital media card reader. Otherwise, there's not much else: No eSATA, TV tuner, HDMI, or IR dongle to connect a set top box. Out of all the ports it lacks, the HDMI connection is a glaring omission, especially if you want the option to connect an external monitor or HDTV to the system and use the Blu-ray drive. Likewise, this system could use an HDMI-in port, so you can connect a faster PC to the display once the internal components become too slow, or connect a set top box so you can get cable TV on your PC. Both options let you stretch out the life of the integrated monitor. The lack of a TV tuner is less of a deal breaker, since broadcast TV is on the decline, while Internet TV (Hulu) is on the rise. The 21.5-inch form factor lends itself to replacing a TV in your den, kitchen, or bedroom. Like most all-in-one PCs, the VPC-J116FX/B doesn't have internal expansion space. The memory slots are user accessible, but both are filled. You'll have to pull one or both memory DIMMs if you want more than the included 4GB of memory. Thankfully, that's enough for most home users. Features The VPC-J116FX has an Intel Core i3-350M processor, 4GB of DDR3 memory, 500GB hard drive, Nvidia GeForce 310M discrete graphics, Blu-ray reader/DVD burning combo drive, and 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi. These features are good for the multimedia enthusiast, but, once again, the omission of an eSATA port is important for faster transfer speeds in hard drives, especially for those who tote around large media files. The system also lacks a remote control, but the omission of a TV tuner may also explain its exclusion. However, the system comes with a Blu-ray player, so the dorm-bound student or the young adult will still want to watch 1080p HD movies on the system, making the addition of a remote sensible for navigating menus. By themselves these drawbacks wouldn't take the score down too much, but together, they drop the VPC-J116FX's overall score by at least a full point. The system is mostly free of bloatware. The only unwanted things include a desktop shortcut ad for Shutterfly and a short 30-day trial subscription to Norton Internet Security. Microsoft and Sony have moved on from the formerly ubiquitous Office 2007 60-day trial to the new Office 2010 Starter Edition, which gives you ad-supported limited versions of Word and Excel. In these versions, you won't get high-level functions like macros in Excel or document review tools in Word, but it will keep all of these features and formatting intact if you bring the files over to another computer. It's a tool for those who need to occasionally check files from work or open files that people send them. One notable software addition is the default browser is Google Chrome, instead of Internet Explorer. IE is still available in case you want to use it instead, but it's interesting that the faster Chrome is the default. The system includes Sony's Media Gallery software, which can help organize your music, photos, and videos. What's notable about the Media Gallery program in comparison to HP's MediaSmart is Sony's Media Gallery has some intelligence built into it, so it automatically groups music and photos together to make instant slideshows you can share online. That way, you won't hear death metal automatically shuffled from your music library while you're trying to look at your recent wedding photos. Like other Costco retail PCs, the VPC-J116FX/B has a two-year warranty. In this case, it's more useful than the warranty's for desktop PC/monitor bundles, like the HP Pavilion HPE-367c-b ($1,499.99 list, ), because they only have 2-year warranties on the desktop, but only one year on the monitor. Since the VPC-J116FX/B is an all-in-one, the screen is covered along with the rest of the system for the full two years. Performance With the exception of 3D gaming, the <p>Sony Vaio VPC-J116FX/B</> is a good performer, thanks to the system's Intel Core i3 processor and 4GB of DDR3 memory. It's an adequate performer at our multimedia tests, with a 55-second run on our Windows Media Encoder test, and a decent 2 minutes 7 seconds on Photoshop CS4. These scores put it squarely in our mainstream performance range, not too bad for the occasional photo retouch, but not suitable for the media enthusiast who spends a lot of time in Photoshop or video editing programs. Our Editors' Choice iMac 21.5-inch (Core i3) and former EC <p>Lenovo IdeaCentre B500</> ($1,399 direct, ) are better choices for the multimedia maven. We couldn't test the VPC-J115FX/B with our 3D tests, since the system couldn't display 1,280 by 1,024 resolution, nor 1,920 by 1,200 resolution, which was higher than the 1,920-by-1,080 display could show. Theoretically, the panel should be able to display at least 1,280 by 1,024, since the iMac and <p>Lenovo B50</>0 did it fine. This issue is due to Sony locking down the display driver to make sure those options aren't available. It's disappointing, since the VPC-J116FX/B's Nvidia GeForce 310M graphics should give the system a decent chance at running the 3D games at 1,280 by 1,024 resolution. Editor's Note: We will be updating our testing in the near future to take advantage of 16:9 displays and resolutions like 1,366 by 768 or 1,920 by 1,080. Essentially, the <p>Sony Vaio VPC-J116FX/B</> makes some strides forward with its two-year warranty, sleek design, decent price, lack of bloatware, multitouch, and Blu-ray. But the system stumbles omitting essential features like HDMI, a remote, and eSATA; locking down the screen resolutions too tightly; and not integrating the power supply. All of these features don't detract too much by themselves, but together they hold the VPC-J116FX/B back from scoring higher. If you like the styling, the <p>Sony Vaio VPC-J116FX/B</> could be a good all-in-one for you, but more demanding users will be left wanting. For only $100 more you can get a sleek form factor and better performance with the <p>Apple iMac 21.5-inch (Core i3)</>.