If a mainstream laptop were uglier than a monkey's armpit, it would fail in today's market no matter how hard the manufactures drove down the price or how well it did on performance tests. With the public's increased interest in attractive laptop designs and manufacturers scrambling to produce them, Toshiba needed to spice up its Satellite line. It has provided just the right touch with the Satellite A305-S6845. This laptop is out to dazzle consumers with its new "Fusion" design, a pattern consisting of a series of white lines embedded beneath a polished exterior. The new look is accompanied by some solid performance numbers, courtesy of Intel's latest Penryn technology and a decent ATI gaming card. It costs only $1,249 (direct). This trio of offerings should be sweet music to shoppers' ears. Toshiba is not breaking any ground with its Fusion design. HP was a pioneer in in-mold decoration (IMD)혰the technique of inlaying designs beneath a glossy finish혰with its Pavilion dv6500t. IMD is being used on many mainstream laptops, such as those by Gateway. ASUS just launched its own line of IMD-decorated laptops, with subtle patterns topped off by a lustrous finish. The <p>Lenovo IdeaPad Y510</> takes a different route by adding texture to the lid, and other manufacturers are painting in solid colors. The same patterns that decorate the lid of the A305 are found beside the keyboard and palm rests, and even through the touchpad. While the keyboard is extremely comfortable to type on, the heavy glaze혰which gives it its shiny look혰has a tendency to reflect light in a distracting way. Aesthetically, it complements the design, but under a fluorescent light it can get in the way of serious work. The chrome mouse buttons, meanwhile, are cool to the touch and add value. Toshiba's use of LED lights really perks up the system's interior. White LEDs were an excellent choice over the more typical amber, red, or blue ones, as they contrast sharply with the black finish. The Satellite brand logo on the bottom left-hand corner, a line above the touchpad, and the touch-sensitive multimedia buttons all glow when the laptop is on. I wouldn't recommend lugging this system around town much. At 5.8 pounds, it's on the heavy side, weighing as much as the HP dv6500t. It is, however, lighter than the <p>Dell XPS M1530</>, the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook A6120</>, the Lenovo Y510, or the <p>Gateway M-152XL</>. The <p>Toshiba Satellite U405-S2830</> is a 4.7-pound version of the A305 and is much better suited to travel purposes. The reason for investing in a bigger machine, however, is the benefit of a spacious 15.4-inch widescreen. It's invaluable when you're working with multiple windows, and provides a better cinematic experience than, say, the Satellite U405's 13-inch widescreen. Going with a 15-inch form factor let Toshiba fit in four USB ports, one more than the U405 has. The USB ports have what Toshiba calls its "Sleep-and-Charge" technology, or the ability to charge an iPod or other small device while the system is shut down. Sleep-and-Charge even works without the AC adapter, so, essentially, you're borrowing a charge from the A305's battery. While having dual 200GB hard drives, for a total of 400GB worth of storage, is worthy of praise, I found it less desirable that one drive has a slower rotational speed (4,200 rpm) than the other (5,400 rpm), which can adversely affect performance. (Toshiba likely did this to save on costs.) The system has a built-in dual-layer DVD burner with LabelFlash technology. (Rather than labeling with ink, LabelFlash etches pictures and text with lasers onto special DVD/CD media that you have to purchase separately.) The A305 also includes three ways of outputting video to an external display: S-Video-out, VGA-out, and HDMI-out. Inputs include a FireWire port and a 4-in-1 card reader (SD, xD, MS, MS Pro). Atop the screen lies a 1.3-megapixel webcam for video chatting. A fingerprint reader (no TPM) is wedged between the mouse buttons. The two Harmon Kardon speakers blast loud and clear; they sound as good as the pair on the HP dv6500t and the Dell M1530. The <p>Lenovo IdeaPad Y510</>, however, has them all beat with a five-speaker system (subwoofer included). The move to Intel's latest "Penryn" technology has been implemented across the board on most mainstream laptops. Until this summer, when Intel moves to its next-generation platform, code-named "Montevina," the 2.1-GHz Intel Core 2 Duo T8100 is about as up-to-date as you can get. Combined with 3GB RAM, the A305 is a formidable performance laptop. Its SYSmark 2007 Preview Overall score surpassed that of the <p>Sony VAIO VGN-FZ485U</> and the <p>Fujitsu Lifebook A6120</> by 13 percent and 10 percent, respectively. It also had a slight performance edge over its smaller sibling, the Satellite U405. But the <p>ASUS M50Sa-A1</> and the <p>Apple MacBook Pro 15-inch (Penryn)</> delivered better performance numbers across the board. Unlike the Fujitsu A6120 and the Satellite U405, the A305 integrates a discrete graphics card from ATI for casual 3D game play. It didn't deliver gaming results like the Apple MacBook Pro, with its nVidia GeForce 8600M GT graphics card, but the A305 held its own in the World in Conflict demo. (3DMark06 and Crysis, for unknown reasons, failed to complete.) The A305's six-cell, 65-Wh battery ranks among the most powerful in this group, and achieved a decent battery score of 3 hours 19 minutes on MobileMark 2007. Only the Apple MacBook Pro scored better, with 3:56 minutes. A higher-capacity, nine-cell battery is available for an extra $150. Toshiba has created a nice package with the Satellite A305-S6845. Shoppers will be drawn in by its Fusion design; the high-performing parts and an affordable price take care of the rest. The A305 is a little on the heavy side, so it's meant to replace your desktop and be an option for commuting occasionally. Furthermore, you can configure this system in various ways, for prices as low as $750. It's important for Toshiba to win over the public with a new look, and laptops like the Satellite A305-S6845 give it has the potential to do so. Check out the <p>Toshiba Satellite A305-S6845</>'s test scores.