The successful <p>Amazon Kindle Fire</> ($199, 4 stars) proves Americans want small, inexpensive tablets, but it's missing go-anywhere 3G connectivity. That's where Sprint's 7-inch ZTE Optik could fit in. For only $99.99 with a 2-year contract, it's hard to argue with the great display, comfortable design, and relatively good performance. The tablet's $349 off-contract price is a somewhat tougher sell, but it's still lower than comparable tablets like the Samsung Galaxy Tab 7 Plus ($399, 3.5 stars.) Unfortunately, some stability issues, its 3G-only networking, and the lack of a path to the latest version of Android leave us unable to recommend the Optik as enthusiastically as we could. Design, Screen, and Connectivity The rounded corners and edges give the ZTE Optik a more playful feel than similar 7-inch tablets like the Kindle Fire , which has a more traditional rectangular shape. Measuring 7.6 by 4.7 by 0.5 inches (HWD), the Optik is slightly larger and thicker than the Kindle Fire (7.5 by 4.7 by .45 inches), but it is slightly lighter at 14.1 ounces versus the Fire's 14.6 ounces. Both tablets are comfortable to hold, but the Optik has a slight advantage with two grippy, rubberized pads on its back. The pads lay right where you want to put your fingers, making the Optik feel a little like a handheld game console. Along the top edge are Power and Volume buttons, while the left and right edges house the 3.5mm headphone jack and microSD card slot, respectively. Two speaker slits along the bottom edge provide relatively loud but tinny sound. A proprietary power port also connects the Optik to computers with an included cable. The Optik's 1280-by-800-pixel screen is denser than the Kindle Fire's 1024-by-600-pixels, and makes for really sharp text and great detail in images. The viewing angle on the Optik is equally impressive, with accurate colors at a wide array of angles. The screen is on par with the 1280-by-800-pixel <p>T-Mobile Springboard 4G</> ($429.99, 3.5 stars).The Optik has a rear-facing 5-megapixel camera, embedded in one of the grippy pads, and a 2-megapixel front-facing camera for video chats. The ZTE Optik can only connect to Sprint's 3G CDMA network, so don't expect blazing fast speeds. In our mobile network tests, Sprint's 3G network averaged 0.59Mbps down and 0.40Mbps up—significantly slower than 4G speeds on Verizon, which averaged 8.85Mbps down and 1.38Mbps up. Data plans from Sprint start at $19.99 per month for 1GB and go all the way up to $79.99 a month for 12GB, which is on par with Verizon's $20 for 1GB a month and $80 for 10GB a month plans. The Optik also supports 802.11 b/g Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR, and had no problem connecting to Bluetooth headphones. OS, Apps, and Performance For a tablet priced under $100 with contract, I half expected to find Android 2.3 "Gingerbread," so the inclusion of Android 3.2 "Honeycomb" is a step in the right direction. That said, Honeycomb still lags behind Android 4.0 "Ice Cream Sandwich" in terms of performance and polish, and there is no timetable for an update for the Optik. ZTE and Sprint made some minor cosmetic modifications, such as changing the Back, Home, and Task Manager icons. Sprint kept carrier bloatware to a minimum, but there are a few apps here that cannot be removed, such as the Sprint Music Player, SprintZone, Sprint Mobile Wallet, and a NASCAR app. As with all Honeycomb tablets, the ZTE Optik suffers from a lack of easy ways to find tablet-specific apps. There are the Staff Picks for Tablets in Google Play, but outside of that you'll have to download third-party app aggregators like the Tablified Market ($1.49, 4 stars). However, given the smaller screen, most phone apps also look fine on the ZTE Optik. Inside, the ZTE Optik is powered by a dual-core 1.2GHz Qualcomm MSM8660 processor, with 1GB RAM and 16GB of internal storage expandable to 48GB using a microSD card. I encountered more app crashes with the Optik than on the Galaxy Tab 7 Plus or Springboard 4G. In a few instances, the Optik abruptly froze and required a full system reset. Battery life was a bit below average, as the ZTE Optik lasted just 4 hours, 24 minutes on our video loop test, with brightness set to max and Wi-Fi on. This was less than the Kindle Fire's 4 hours, 55 minutes, and the Galaxy Tab 7 Plus's 6 hours, 33 minutes. Camera performance was a bit disappointing. Pictures taken with the 5-megapixel rear-facing camera lacked texture and suffered from a lot of image noise. The Optik can record video at up to 720p resolution, but the frame rates topped out at 15 frames per second, giving the video a choppy, jelly like look. Shots taken with the 2-megapixel front-facing camera were even worse, but Skype video calls looked relatively smooth, with in-sync audio. The Optik supports H.264, MPEG4, AVI, and DivX videos at up to 1080p resolution. For audio, the Optik supports MP3, AAC, OGG, and WAV, but not FLAC or WMA. Disappointingly, there is no HDMI out on the Optik like on the Springboard 4G. Conclusions It's hard to argue with the ZTE Optik's $100 price on-contract. The Optik has a powerful processor and runs the hundreds of thousands of Android apps out there, for both phones and tablets. But we're still a little hesitant, especially at the $349 off-contract price most people will be paying. (According to a recent report by analyst Chetan Sharma, 90 percent of tablets are sold without contracts.) The Optik costs less than the <p>Samsung Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus</> and T-Mobile Springboard off-contract, but its battery life and system stability don't quite measure up. Another budget-friendly option to consider is the <p>Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 (7.0)</> ($249.99, 4 stars), which strikes a better balance between performance and price, and comes with the latest version of Android, but doesn't offer any mobile data plans. You'll save money with the Optik—just make sure you're willing to pay the price. More Tablet Reviews: Asus Chromebook Flip (C302CA-DHM4) Verizon GizmoTab Verizon Ellipsis 8 HD Xplore XSlate R12 Lenovo Miix 510 more